The Project Gutenberg EBook of Taken by the Enemy, by Oliver Optic

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org


Title: Taken by the Enemy

Author: Oliver Optic

Release Date: June 14, 2006 [EBook #18579]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TAKEN BY THE ENEMY ***




Produced by Louise Hope, David Garcia, Juliet Sutherland
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Kentuckiana Digital
Library)






THE BLUE AND THE GRAY--AFLOAT

Two colors cloth  Emblematic Dies  Illustrated
Price per volume $1.50

  TAKEN BY THE ENEMY
  WITHIN THE ENEMY'S LINES
  ON THE BLOCKADE
  STAND BY THE UNION
  FIGHTING FOR THE RIGHT
  A VICTORIOUS UNION

THE BLUE AND THE GRAY--ON LAND

Two colors cloth  Emblematic Dies  Illustrated
Price per volume $1.50

  BROTHER AGAINST BROTHER
  IN THE SADDLE
  A LIEUTENANT AT EIGHTEEN
  (Other volumes in preparation)

Any Volume Sold Separately.
Lee and Shepard Publishers Boston




  [Illustration: "Three Cheers for Captain Passford" (Page 75)]




                      The

               BLUE AND THE GRAY

                     Series

                 [Illustration]

                By Oliver Optic

               TAKEN by the ENEMY




         _The Blue and the Gray Series_

               TAKEN BY THE ENEMY

                       by
                  OLIVER OPTIC

                   Author of
"The Army and Navy Series" "Young America Abroad"
"The Great Western Series" "The Woodville Stories"
"The Starry-Flag Series" "The Boat-Club Stories"
"The Onward and Upward Series" "The Yacht-Club Series"
"The Lake-Shore Series" "The Riverdale Series"
         "The Boat-Builder Series" etc.

              _WITH ILLUSTRATIONS_


                     BOSTON

          LEE AND SHEPARD  Publishers




      Copyright, 1888, by Lee and Shepard
             _All rights reserved._

              Taken by the Enemy.




                       To

                   My Nephew,

               HERBERT W. ADAMS,

                   This Book

          is Affectionately Dedicated.




PREFACE


"TAKEN BY THE ENEMY" is the first of a new series of six volumes which
are to be associated under the general title of "The Blue and the Gray
Series," which sufficiently indicates the character of the books. At the
conclusion of the war of the Rebellion, and before the writer had
completed "The Army and Navy Series," over twenty years ago, some of his
friends advised him to make all possible haste to bring his war stories
to a conclusion, declaring that there could be no demand for such works
when the war had come to an end. But the volumes of the series mentioned
are as much in demand to-day as any of his other stories, though from
their nature the field of their circulation is more limited. Surprising
as this may appear, it is still the fact; and certainly the author has
received more commendatory letters from young people in regard to the
books of this series than concerning those of any other.

Among these letters there has occasionally been one, though rarely, in
which the writer objected to this series for the reason that he was "on
the other side" of the great issue which shook the nation to the centre
of its being for four years. Doubtless the writers of these letters, and
many who wrote no letters, will be surprised and grieved at the
announcement of another series by the author on war topics. The writer
had little inclination to undertake this task; for he has believed for
twenty years that the war is over, and he has not been disposed to keep
alive old issues which had better remain buried. He has spent some time
in the South, and has always found himself among friends there. He
became personally acquainted with those who fought on the Confederate
side, from generals to privates, and he still values their friendship.
He certainly is not disposed to write any thing that would cause him to
forfeit his title to the kind feeling that was extended to him.

It is not, therefore, with the desire or intention to rekindle the fires
of sectional animosity, now happily subdued, that the writer begins
another series relating to the war. The call upon him to use the topics
of the war has been so urgent, and its ample field of stirring events
has been so inviting, that he could not resist; but, while his own
opinions in regard to the great question of five-and-twenty years ago
remain unchanged, he hopes to do more ample justice than perhaps was
done before to those "who fought on the other side."

The present volume introduces those which are to follow it, and presents
many of the characters that are to figure in them. Though written from
the Union standpoint, the author hopes that it will not be found unfair
or unjust to those who looked from the opposite point of view.

  Dorchester, June 12, 1888.




CONTENTS

                                              Page
CHAPTER I.
Astounding News from the Shore                  13

CHAPTER II.
The Brother at the South                        24

CHAPTER III.
Dangerous and Somewhat Irregular                35

CHAPTER IV.
The First Mission of the Bellevite              47

CHAPTER V.
The Bellevite and those on Board of her         58

CHAPTER VI.
Mr. Percy Pierson introduces himself            69

CHAPTER VII.
A Complication at Glenfield                     80

CHAPTER VIII.
A Disconsolate Purchaser of Vessels             91

CHAPTER IX.
Christy matures a Promising Scheme             102

CHAPTER X.
The Attempt to pass into Mobile Bay            113

CHAPTER XI.
The Major in Command of Fort Gaines            124

CHAPTER XII.
How the Bellevite passed Fort Morgan           135

CHAPTER XIII.
A Decided Difference of Opinion                146

CHAPTER XIV.
The Blue and the Gray                          157

CHAPTER XV.
Brother at War with Brother                    168

CHAPTER XVI.
Christy finds himself a Prisoner               179

CHAPTER XVII.
Major Pierson is puzzled                       190

CHAPTER XVIII.
The Morning Trip of the Leopard                201

CHAPTER XIX.
The Report of the Scout from the Shore         212

CHAPTER XX.
A Rebellion in the Pilot-House                 223

CHAPTER XXI.
The Sick Captain of the Leopard                234

CHAPTER XXII.
The Proceedings on the Lower Deck              245

CHAPTER XXIII.
The Expedition from the Leopard                256

CHAPTER XXIV.
The Engineer goes into the Forecastle          267

CHAPTER XXV.
The First Lesson for a Sailor                  278

CHAPTER XXVI.
The Post of Duty and of Danger                 289

CHAPTER XXVII.
A Cannon-Ball through the Leopard              300

CHAPTER XXVIII.
The American Flag at the Fore                  311

CHAPTER XXIX.
On Board of the Bellevite                      322

CHAPTER XXX.
Running the Gantlet                            333




TAKEN BY THE ENEMY




CHAPTER I

ASTOUNDING NEWS FROM THE SHORE


"This is most astounding news!" exclaimed Captain Horatio Passford.

It was on the deck of the magnificent steam-yacht Bellevite, of which he
was the owner; and with the newspaper, in which he had read only a few
of the many head-lines, still in his hand, he rushed furiously across
the deck, in a state of the most intense agitation.

It would take more than one figure to indicate the number of millions by
which his vast wealth was measured, in the estimation of those who knew
most about his affairs; and he was just returning from a winter cruise
in his yacht.

His wife and son were on board; but his daughter had spent the winter at
the South with her uncle, preferring this to a voyage at sea, being in
rather delicate health, and the doctors thought a quiet residence in a
genial climate was better for her.

The Bellevite had been among the islands of the Atlantic, visiting the
Azores, Madeira, the Canary Islands, and was now coming from Bermuda.
She had just taken a pilot fifty miles from Sandy Hook, and was bound to
New York, for the captain's beautiful estate, Bonnydale, was located on
the Hudson.

As usual, the pilot had brought on board with him the latest New-York
papers, and one of them contained the startling news which appeared to
have thrown the owner of the Bellevite entirely off his balance; and it
was quite astounding enough to produce this effect upon any American.

"What is it, sir?" demanded Christopher Passford, his son, a remarkably
bright-looking young fellow of sixteen, as he followed his father across
the deck.

"What is it, Horatio?" inquired Mrs. Passford, who had been seated with
a book on the deck, as she also followed her husband.

The captain was usually very cool and self-possessed, and neither the
wife nor the son had ever before seen him so shaken by agitation. He
seemed to be unable to speak a word for the time, and took no notice
whatever of his wife and son when they addressed him.

For several minutes he continued to rush back and forth across the deck
of the steamer, like a vessel which had suddenly caught a heavy flaw of
wind, and had not yet come to her bearings.

"What is the matter, Horatio?" asked Mrs. Passford, when he came near
her. "What in the world has happened to overcome you in this manner, for
I never saw you so moved before?"

But her husband did not reply even to this earnest interrogatory, but
again darted across the deck, and his lips moved as though he were
muttering something to himself. He did not look at the paper in his
hands again; and whatever the startling intelligence it contained, he
seemed to have taken it all in at a glance.

Christy, as the remarkably good-looking young man was called by all in
the family and on board of the Bellevite, appeared to be even more
astonished than his mother at the singular conduct of his father; but
he saw how intense was his agitation, and he did not follow him in his
impulsive flights across the deck.

Though his father had always treated him with great consideration, and
seldom if ever had occasion to exercise any of his paternal authority
over him, the young man never took advantage of the familiarity existing
between them. His father was certainly in a most extraordinary mood for
him, and he could not venture to speak a word to him.

He stood near the companion way, not far from his mother, and he
observed the movements of his father with the utmost interest, not
unmingled with anxiety; and Mrs. Passford fully shared with him the
solicitude of the moment.

The steamer was going at full speed in the direction of Sandy Hook.
Captain Passford gave no heed to the movement of the vessel, but for
several minutes planked the deck as though he were unable to realize
the truth or the force of the news he had hastily gathered from the
head-lines of the newspaper.

At last he halted in the waist, at some distance from the other members
of his family, raised his paper, and fixed his gaze upon the staring
announcement at the head of one of its columns. No one ventured to
approach him; for he was the magnate of the vessel, and, whatever his
humor, he was entitled to the full benefit of it.

He only glanced at the head-lines as he had done before, and then
dropped the paper, as though the announcement he had read was all he
desired to know.

"Beeks," said he, as a quartermaster passed near him.

The man addressed promptly halted, raised his hand to his cap, and
waited the pleasure of the owner of the steamer.

"Tell Captain Breaker that I wish to see him, if you please," added
Captain Passford.

The man repeated the name of the person he was to call, and hastened
away to obey the order. The owner resumed his march across the deck,
though it was evident to the anxious observers that he had in a great
measure recovered his self-possession, for his movements were less
nervous, and the usual placid calm was restored to his face.

In another minute, Captain Breaker, who was the actual commander of the
vessel, appeared in the waist, and walked up to his owner. Though not
more than forty-five years old, his hair and full beard were heavily
tinted with gray; and an artist who wished for an ideal shipmaster,
who was both a gentleman and a sailor, could not have found a better
representative of this type in the merchant or naval service, or on the
deck of the finest steam-yacht in the world.

"You sent for me, Captain Passford," said the commander, in respectful
but not subservient tones.

"You will take the steamer to some point off Fire Island, and come to
anchor there," replied the owner, as, without any explanation, he walked
away from the spot.

"Off Fire Island," added Captain Breaker, simply repeating the name of
the locality to which his order related, but not in a tone that required
an exclamation-point to express his surprise.

Whatever the captain of the Bellevite thought or felt, it was an
extraordinary order which he received. It was in the month of April,
and the vessel had been absent about five months on her winter pleasure
cruise.

In a few hours more the yacht could easily be at her moorings off
Bonnydale on the Hudson; but when almost in sight of New York, the
captain had been ordered to anchor, as though the owner had no intention
of returning to his elegant home.

If he was surprised, as doubtless he was, he did not manifest it in the
slightest degree; for he was a sailor, and it was a part of his gospel
to obey the orders of his owner without asking any questions.

No doubt he thought of his wife and children as he walked forward to the
pilot-house to execute his order, for he had been away from them for a
long time. The three papers brought on board by the pilot had all been
given to the owner, and he had no hint of the startling news they
contained.

The course of the Bellevite was promptly changed more to the northward;
and if the pilot wished to be informed in regard to this strange
alteration in the immediate destination of the vessel, Captain Breaker
was unable to give him any explanation.

Captain Passford was evidently himself again; and he did not rush across
the deck as he had done before, but seated himself in an armchair he had
occupied before the pilot came on board, and proceeded to read something
more than the headlines in the paper.

He hardly moved or looked up for half an hour, so intensely was he
absorbed in the narrative before him. Mrs. Passford and Christy, though
even more excited by the singular conduct of the owner, and the change
in the course of the steamer, did not venture to interrupt him.

The owner took the other two papers from his pocket, and had soon
possessed himself of all the details of the astounding news; and it
was plain enough to those who so eagerly observed his expression as he
read, that he was impressed as he had never been before in his life.

Before the owner had finished the reading of the papers, the Bellevite
had reached the anchorage chosen by the pilot, and the vessel was soon
fast to the bottom in a quiet sea.

"The tide is just right for going up to the city," said the pilot, who
had left his place in the pilot-house, and addressed himself to the
owner in the waist.

"But we shall not go up to the city," replied Captain Passford, in a
very decided tone. "But that shall make no difference in your pilot's
fees.--Captain Breaker."

The captain of the steamer, who had also come out of the pilot-house,
had stationed himself within call of the owner to receive the next
order, which might throw some light on the reason for anchoring the
steamer so near her destination on a full sea. He presented himself
before the magnate of the yacht, and indicated that he was ready to
take his further orders.

"You will see that the pilot is paid his full fee for taking the vessel
to a wharf," continued Captain Passford.

The captain bowed, and started towards the companionway; but the owner
called him back.

"I see what looks like a tug to the westward of us. You will set the
signal to bring her alongside," the magnate proceeded.

This order was even more strange than that under which the vessel had
come to anchor so near home after her long cruise; but the captain asked
no questions, and made no sign. Calling Beeks, he went aft with the
pilot, and paid him his fees.

When the American flag was displayed in the fore-rigging for the tug,
Captain Passford, with his gaze fixed on the planks of the deck, walked
slowly to the place where his wife was seated, and halted in front of
her without speaking a word. But there was a quivering of the lip which
assured the lady and her son that he was still struggling to suppress
his agitation.

"What is the matter, Horatio?" asked the wife, in the tenderest of
tones, while her expression assured those who saw her face that the
anxiety of the husband had been communicated to the wife.

"I need hardly tell you, Julia, that I am disturbed as I never was
before in all my life," replied he, maintaining his calmness only with
a struggle.

"I can see that something momentous has happened in our country," she
added, hardly able to contain herself, for she felt that she was in the
presence of an unexplained calamity.

"Something has happened, my dear; something terrible,--something that
I did not expect, though many others were sure that it would come," he
continued, seating himself at the side of his wife.

"But you do not tell me what it is," said the lady, with a look which
indicated that her worst fears were confirmed. "Is Florry worse? Is
she"--

"So far as I know, Florry is as well as usual," interposed the husband.
"But a state of war exists at the present moment between the North and
the South."




CHAPTER II

THE BROTHER AT THE SOUTH


Even five months before, when the Bellevite had sailed on her cruise,
the rumble of coming events had been heard in the United States; and it
had been an open question whether or not war would grow out of the
complications between the North and the South.

Only a few letters, and fewer newspapers, had reached the owner of
the yacht; and he and his family on board had been very indifferently
informed in regard to the progress of political events at home. Captain
Passford was one of those who confidently believed that no very serious
difficulty would result from the entanglements into which the country
had been plunged by the secession of the most of the Southern States.

He would not admit even to himself that war was possible; and before his
departure he had scouted the idea of a conflict with arms between the
brothers of the North and the brothers of the South, as he styled them.

Captain Passford had been the master of a ship in former times, though
he had accumulated his vast fortune after he abandoned the sea. His
father was an Englishman, who had come to the United States as a young
man, had married, raised his two sons, and died in the city of New York.

These two sons, Horatio and Homer, were respectively forty-five and
forty years of age. Both of them were married, and each of them had only
a son and a daughter. While Horatio had been remarkably successful in
his pursuit of wealth in the metropolis, he had kept himself clean and
honest, like so many of the wealthy men of the great city. When he
retired from active business, he settled at Bonnydale on the Hudson.

His brother had been less successful as a business-man, and soon
after his marriage to a Northern lady he had purchased a plantation in
Alabama, where both of his children had been born, and where he was a
man of high standing, with wealth enough to maintain his position in
luxury, though his fortune was insignificant compared with that of his
brother.

Between the two brothers and their families the most kindly relations
had always existed; and each made occasional visits to the other, though
the distance which separated them was too great to permit of very
frequent exchanges personally of brotherly love and kindness.

Possibly the fraternal feeling which subsisted between the two brothers
had some influence upon the opinions of Horatio, for to him hostilities
meant making war upon his only brother, whom he cherished as warmly as
if they had not been separated by a distance of over a thousand miles.

He measured the feelings of others by his own; and if all had felt as
he felt, war would have been an impossibility, however critical and
momentous the relations between the two sections.

Though his father had been born and bred in England, Horatio was more
intensely American than thousands who came out of Plymouth Rock stock;
and he believed in the union of the States, unable to believe that any
true citizen could tolerate the idea of a separation of any kind.

The first paper which Captain Passford read on the deck of the Bellevite
contained the details of the bombardment and capture of Fort Sumter; and
the others, a record of the events which had transpired in the few
succeeding days after the news of actual war reached the North.

This terrible intelligence was unexpected to the owner of the yacht,
believing, as he had, in the impossibility of war; and it seemed to him
just as though he and his cherished brother were already arrayed against
each other on the battle-field.

The commotion between the two sections had begun before his departure
from home on the yacht cruise, but his brother, perhaps because he was
fully instructed in regard to the Union sentiment of Horatio, was
strangely reticent, and expressed no opinions of his own.

But Captain Passford, measuring his brother according to his own
standard, was fully persuaded that Homer was as sound on the great
question as he was himself, though the excitement and violence around
him might have caused him to maintain a neutral position.

Certainly if the Northern brother had anticipated that a terrible
war was impending, he would not have permitted his daughter Florence,
a beautiful young lady of seventeen, to reside during the winter in a
hot-bed of secession and disunion. The papers informed him what had been
done at the North and at the South to initiate the war; and the thought
that Florry was now in the midst of the enemies of her country was
agonizing to him.

Though he felt that his country demanded his best energies, and though
he was ready and willing to give himself and his son to her in her hour
of need, he felt that his first duty was to his own family, within
reasonable limits; and his earliest thoughts were directed to the safety
of his daughter, and then to the welfare of his brother and his family.

"War!" exclaimed Mrs. Passford, when her husband had announced so
briefly the situation which had caused such intense agitation in his
soul. "What do you mean by war, Horatio?"

"I mean all that terrible word can convey of destruction and death, and,
worse yet, of hate and revenge between brothers of the same household!"
replied the husband impressively. "Both the North and the South are
sounding the notes of preparation. Men are gathering by thousands on
both sides, soon to meet on fields which must be drenched in the gore of
brothers."

"But don't you think the trouble will be settled in some way, Horatio?"
asked the anxious wife and mother; and her thoughts, like those of her
husband, reverted to the loving daughter then in the enemy's camp.

"I do not think so; that is impossible now. I did not believe that war
was possible: now I do not believe it will be over till one side or the
other shall be exhausted," replied Captain Passford, wiping from his
brow the perspiration which the intensity of his emotion produced.
"A civil war is the most bitter and terrible of all wars."

"I cannot understand it," added the lady.

"Is it really war, sir?" asked Christy, who had been an interested
listener to all that had been said.

"It is really war, my son," replied the father earnestly. "It will be
a war which cannot be carried to a conclusion by hirelings; but father,
son, and brother must take part in it, against father, son, and
brother."

"It is terrible to think of," added Mrs. Passford with something like
a shudder, though she was a strong-minded woman in the highest sense of
the words.

Captain Passford then proceeded to inform his wife and son in regard to
all the events which had transpired since he had received his latest
papers at Bermuda. They listened with the most intense interest, and the
trio were as solemn as though they had met to consider the dangerous
illness of the absent member of the family.

The owner did not look upon the impending war as a sort of frolic, as
did many of the people at the North and the South, and he could not
regard it as a trivial conflict which would be ended in a few weeks
or a few months. To him it was the most terrible reality which his
imagination could picture; and more clearly than many eminent statesmen,
he foresaw that it would be a long and fierce encounter.

"From what you say, Horatio, I judge that the South is already arming
for the conflict," said Mrs. Passford, after she had heard her husband's
account of what had occurred on shore.

"The South has been preparing for war for months, and the North began to
make serious preparation for coming events as soon as Fort Sumter fell.
Doubtless the South is better prepared for the event to-day than the
North, though the greater population and vast resources of the latter
will soon make up for lost time," replied the captain.

"And Florry is right in the midst of the gathering armies of the South,"
added the fond mother, wiping a tear from her eyes.

"She is; and, unless something is done at once to restore her to her
home, she may have to remain in the enemy's country for months, if not
for years," answered the father, with a slight trembling of the lips.

"But what can be done?" asked the mother anxiously.

"The answer to that question has agitated me more than any thing else
which has come to my mind for years, for I cannot endure the thought of
leaving her even a single month at any point which is as likely as any
other to become a battle-field in a few days or a few weeks," continued
Captain Passford, with some return of the agitation which had before
shaken him so terribly.

"Of course your brother Homer will take care of her," said the terrified
mother, as she gazed earnestly into the expressive face of the
stout-hearted man before her.

"Certainly he will do all for Florry that he would do for his own
children, but he may not long be able to save his own family from the
horrors of war."

"Do you think she will be in any actual danger, Horatio?"

"I have no doubt she will be as safe at Glenfield, if the conflict were
raging there, as she would be at Bonnydale under the same circumstances.
From the nature of the case, the burden of the fighting, the havoc and
desolation, will be within the Southern States, and few, if any, of the
battle-fields will be on Northern soil, or at least as far north as our
home."

"From what I have seen of the people near the residence of your brother,
they are neither brutes nor savages," added the lady.

"No more than the people of the North; but war rouses the brute nature
of most men, and there will be brutes and savages on both sides, from
the very nature of the case."

"In his recent letters, I mean those that came before we sailed from
home, Homer did not seem to take part with either side in the political
conflict; and in those which came to us at the Azores and Bermuda, he
did not say a single word to indicate whether he is a secessionist, or
in favor of the Union. Do you know how he stands, Horatio?"

"My means of knowing are the same as yours, and I can be no wiser than
you are on this point, though I have my opinion," replied Captain
Passford.

"What is your opinion?"

"That he is as truly a Union man as I am."

"I am glad that he is."

"I do not say that he is a Union man; but judging from his silence, and
what I know of him, I think he is. And it is as much a part of my desire
and intention to bring him and his family out of the enemy's country as
it is to recover Florry."

"Then we shall have them all at Bonnydale this summer?" suggested Mrs.
Passford. "Nothing could suit me better."

"Though I am fully persuaded in my own mind that Homer will be true to
his country in this emergency, I may be mistaken. He has lived for many
years at the South, and has been identified with the institutions of
that locality, as I have been with those of the North. Though we both
love the land of our fathers on the other side of the ocean, we have
both been strongly American. As he always believed in the whole country
as a unit, I shall expect him to be more than willing to stand by his
country as it was, and as it should be."

"I hope you will find him so, but I am grievously sorry that Florry is
not with us."

"Tug-boat alongside, Captain Passford," said the commander.

The owner of the Bellevite wished the tug to wait his orders.




CHAPTER III

DANGEROUS AND SOMEWHAT IRREGULAR


In various parts of the deck of the Bellevite, the officers, seamen,
engineers, and coal-passers of the steamer were gathered in knots,
evidently discussing the situation; for the news brought on board by
the pilot had been spread through the ship.

Captain Passford hardly noticed the announcement made to him by the
commander, that the tug was alongside, for he was not yet ready to make
use of it. Even the wife and the son of the owner wondered what the
mission of the little vessel was to be; but the husband and father had
not yet disclosed his purpose in coming to anchor almost in sight of his
own mansion.

"Why have you come to anchor here, Horatio?" asked Mrs. Passford, taking
advantage of the momentary pause in the interesting, and even exciting,
conversation, to put this leading question.

"I was about to tell you. I have already adopted my plan to recover
Florry, and bring my brother and his family out of the enemy's country,"
replied the owner, looking with some solicitude into the face of his
wife, as though he anticipated some objection to his plan.

"You have adopted it so quick?" inquired the lady. "You have not had
much time to think of it."

"I have had all the time I need to enable me to reach the decision to
rescue my child from peril, and save my brother and his family from
privation and trouble in the enemy's country. But I have only decided
what to do, and I have yet to mature the details of the scheme."

"I hope you are not going into any danger," added the wife anxiously.

"Danger!" exclaimed Captain Passford, straightening up his manly form.
"War with all its perils and hardships is before us. Am I a villain,
a poltroon, who will desert his country in the hour of her greatest
need? I do not so understand myself."

"Of course I meant any needless exposure," added Mrs. Passford,
impressed by the patriotic bearing of her husband.

"You may be assured, Julia, that I will incur no needless peril, and I
think I am even more careful than the average of men. But, when I have
a duty to perform, I feel that I ought to do it without regard to the
danger which may surround it."

"I know you well enough to understand that, Horatio," said the lady.

"I believe there will be danger in my undertaking, though to what extent
I am unable to say."

"But you do not tell me how you intend to recover Florry."

"I intend to go for her and my brother's family in the Bellevite."

"In the Bellevite!" exclaimed the lady.

"Of course; there is no other possible way to reach Glenfield," which
was the name that Homer Passford had given to his plantation.

"But Fort Morgan, at the entrance of Mobile Bay, is in the hands of the
Confederates, and has been for three or four months," said Christy, who
had kept himself as thoroughly posted in regard to events at home as the
sources of information would permit.

"I am well aware of it; and I have no doubt, that, by this time, the
fort is strongly garrisoned, to say nothing of other forts which have
probably been built in the vicinity," replied Captain Passford.

"It says in this paper that the ports of the South have been blockaded,"
said Christy, glancing at the journal in his hand.

"The President has issued a proclamation to this effect, but there has
hardly been time to enforce it to any great extent yet. But of these
matters I have nothing to say yet. The important point now is that I
shall go in the Bellevite to Mobile Bay, and by force or strategy I
shall bring off my daughter and the family of my brother."

"Then I suppose Christy and I are to be sent on shore in the tug
alongside," suggested Mrs. Passford.

"That is precisely what I wanted the tug for," added the husband.

"I should be willing to go with you, and share whatever dangers you may
incur," said the lady, who had by this time come to a full realization
of what war meant.

"I should be a heathen to allow you to do so. A woman would be more of
a burden than a help to us. You had better return to Bonnydale, Julia,
where I am sure you can render more service to your country than you
could on board of the steamer. All that I am, all that I have, shall be
at the service of the Union; and I wish you to act for me according to
your own good judgment."

"I shall do whatever you wish me to do, Horatio," added the lady.

"My mission will be a dangerous one at best, and the deck of the steamer
will be no place for you, Julia."

"Very well; Christy and I will take the tug as soon as you are ready to
have us leave you."

"Am I to go on shore, father?" demanded Christy, with a look of chagrin
on his handsome face, browned by exposure to the sun on the ocean.
"I want to go with you; and I am sure I can do my share of the duty,
whatever it may be."

"You are rather young to engage in such an enterprise as that before me,
Christy," added his father, as he gazed with pride at the face and form
of his son, who had thrown back his head as though he felt the
inspiration of all the manliness in his being.

"If there is to be a war for the Union, I am a Union man, or boy, as you
like; and it would be as mean and cowardly for me to turn my back to the
enemy as it would be for you to do so, sir," replied Christy, his chest
heaving with patriotic emotion.

"I am willing you should go with me," added Captain Passford, turning
from the young man to his mother.

There was a tear in the eyes of the lady as she looked upon her son. It
was hard enough to have her husband leave her on such a mission: it was
doubly so to have Christy go with him.

"Christy might be of great service to me," said his father. "I look upon
this war as a very solemn event; and when a man's country calls upon him
to render his time, his comfort, even his life, he has no moral right to
put himself, his father, his brother, or his son in a safe place, and
leave mere hirelings, the thoughtless, reckless adventurers, to fight
his battle for him."

"I am ready to go, sir," added Christy.

"He may go with you, if you think it best," said the mother with a
quivering lip. "I shall miss him, but I am sure you would miss him
more."

"My first mission is hardly in the service of my country; at least, it
is not directly so, though I hope to be of some use to her during my
absence. As I said before, I think my first duty--a duty committed to
me by the Almighty, which takes precedence over all other duties--is,
within reasonable limits, to my own family. I will not spare myself or
my son, but I must save Florry and my brother's family."

"I think you are right, Horatio."

"On my return I shall present the Bellevite to the Government, which
is in sore need of suitable vessels at the present time, and offer my
services in any capacity in which I can be useful," continued Captain
Passford. "Captain Breaker," he called to the commander.

"Here, sir."

"Pipe the entire ship's company on the forecastle, and see that no one
from the tug is near enough to hear what is said there."

Captain Breaker had formerly been a lieutenant in the navy, and the
forms and discipline of a man-of-war prevailed on board of the
steam-yacht. In a minute more the pipe of the boatswain rang through
the vessel, and all hands were mustered on the forecastle. The tug was
made fast on the quarter of the steamer, and no one from her had come
on board.

Captain Passford and Christy walked forward, leaving the lady with her
own thoughts. She was a daughter of a distinguished officer in the navy,
and she had been fully schooled in the lesson of patriotism for such an
emergency as the present. She was sad, and many a tear dropped from her
still handsome face; but she was brave enough to feel proud that she had
a husband and a son whom she was willing to give to her country.

The ship's company gathered on the forecastle; and every one of them
seemed to be deeply impressed with the solemnity of the occasion, for
not a light word was spoken, not a laugh played on any face. They had
just learned that the country was in a state of war; and the present
occasion indicated that the owner had some serious question in his mind,
which was now to be presented to them.

The Bellevite was heavily manned for a yacht; but every person had been
selected for his position, from the highest to the lowest, with the
utmost care by Captain Breaker, assisted by the owner. Every one of them
had been attached to the steamer for at least a year, and some of them
for a longer period. All of them were personally known to the owner and
the members of the family, who had taken the greatest pleasure in
improving and assisting them and their families, if they had any.

They were all devoted to the owner and the members of his family, who
had taken such a strong personal interest in them and theirs. Many
instances of the kindness of the lady in times of sickness and death,
as well as in the brighter days of prosperity and happiness, could be
related; and in return for all this generous and considerate treatment,
there was not a man on board who would not have laid down his life for
the family.

It was certainly a model ship's company; and if there had ever been
another owner and captain like those of the Bellevite, there might also
have been such another collection of officers and seamen. But every one
of them had been selected for his moral character, not less than for his
nautical skill and knowledge. In fact, the personal history of any one
of them would have been interesting to the general reader.

These men composed the audience of Captain Passford when he took his
place at the bowsprit bitts; and, if the occasion had been less solemn,
they would have cheered him, as they were in the habit of doing on every
suitable opportunity, and even when it was not suitable.

The owner prefaced his remarks with a statement of the events which
had occurred in the country since the last dates they had received, and
then proceeded to describe his mission as indicated to his wife and son.
He fully stated the perils of the enterprise, with the fact that his
operations would be somewhat irregular; though he intended to make an
immediate tender of the vessel to the Government, with his own services
in any capacity in which he might be needed.

In spite of the solemnity of the occasion, the men broke out into
cheers, and not a few of the sailors shouted out their readiness to go
with him wherever he might go, without regard to danger or hardship. One
old sheet-anchor man declared that he was ready to die for Miss Florry;
and he was so lustily cheered that it was evident this was the sentiment
of all.

"I have called the tug at the quarter alongside to convey Mrs. Passford
to the shore, though Christy will go with me," added the owner.

At this point he was interrupted by a volley of cheers, for Christy was
a universal favorite on board, as Florry had always been; and the ship's
company regarded her as a sort of mundane divinity, upon whom they could
look only with the most profound reverence.

"In view of the danger and the irregularity of the enterprise, I shall
not persuade or urge any person on board to accompany me; and the tug
will take on shore all who prefer to leave the vessel, with my best
wishes for their future. Those who prefer to go on shore will go aft
to the mainmast," continued Captain Passford.

Officers and seamen looked from one to the other; but not one of them
took a step from his place on the forecastle, to which all seemed to be
nailed.




CHAPTER IV

THE FIRST MISSION OF THE BELLEVITE


Captain Passford looked over his audience with no little interest, and
perhaps with considerable anxiety; for he felt that the success of his
enterprise must depend, in a great measure, upon the fidelity and skill
of the individual members of the ship's company.

"My remarks are addressed to every person in the ship's company, from
Captain Breaker to the stewards and coal-passers; and any one has a
perfect right to decline to go with me, without prejudice to his present
or future interests," continued the owner.

More earnestly than before the officers and men gazed at each other; and
it looked as though not one of them dared to move a single inch, lest a
step should be interpreted as an impeachment of his fidelity to one who
had been a Christian and a trusty friend in all his relations with him.

"I know that some of you have families, mothers, brothers, and sisters
on shore; and I assure you that I shall not regard it as a disgrace or
a stigma upon any man who does his duty as he understands it, without
regard to me or mine," the owner proceeded.

Still not a man moved, and all seemed to be more averse than before to
change their positions a particle; and possibly any one who was tempted
to do so expected to be hooted by his shipmates, if he took the
treacherous step.

"I sincerely hope that every man of you will be guided by his own sense
of duty, without regard to what others may think of his action. I will
not allow any man to suffer from any reproach or indignity on account
of what he does in this matter, if by any means I can prevent it,"
continued Captain Passford, looking over his audience again, to
discover, if he could, any evidence of faltering on the part of a
single one.

Still officers and men were as immovable as a group of statuary; and not
a face betrayed an expression indicating a desire to leave the vessel,
or to falter in what all regarded as the allegiance they owed to the
owner and his family.

"We will all go with you to the end of the world, or the end of the
war!" shouted the old sheet-anchor man, who was the spokesman of the
crew when they had any thing to say. "If any man offers to leave"--

"He shall go with my best wishes," interposed Captain Passford. "None of
that, Boxie; you have heard what I said, and I mean every word of it.
There shall be no persuasion or intimidation."

"Beg pardon, Captain Passford; but there isn't a man here that would go
to the mainmast if he knew that the forecastle would drop out from under
him, and let him down into Davy Jones's locker the next minute if he
staid here," responded Boxie, with a complaisant grin on his face, as
if he was entirely conscious that he knew what he was talking about.

"Every man must act on his own free will," added the owner.

"That's just what we are all doing, your honor; and every one of us
would rather go than have his wages doubled. If any dumper here has a
free will to go to the mainmast, he'd better put his head in soak,
and"--

"Avast heaving, Boxie!" interposed the owner, smiling in spite of
himself at the earnestness of the old sailor.

"I hain't got a word more to say, your honor; only"--

"Only nothing, Boxie! I see that not one of you is inclined to leave the
vessel, and I appreciate in the highest degree this devotion on your
part to me and my family. I have some writing to do now; and, while I am
engaged upon it, Mr. Watts shall take the name and residence of every
man on board. I shall give this list to my wife, and charge her to see
that those dependent upon you need nothing in your absence. She will
visit the friends of every one of you, if she has to go five hundred
miles to do so. I have nothing more to say at present."

The men cheered lustily for the owner, and then separated, as the
captain went aft to draw up his papers to send on shore by Mrs.
Passford. He was followed by Captain Breaker, while little groups
formed in various parts of the deck to discuss the situation.

"I intended to have some talk with you, Breaker, before I said any thing
to the ship's company; but, you know, it is very seldom that I ever say
any thing directly to them," said Captain Passford, as the commander
came up with him.

"This was an extraordinary occasion; and I am very glad that you did
the business directly, instead of committing it to me," replied Captain
Breaker; "and I have not the slightest objection to make. But I have a
word to say in regard to myself personally. As you are aware, I was
formerly an officer of the navy, with the rank of lieutenant. I wish to
apply to the department to be restored to my former rank, or to any rank
which will enable me to serve my country the most acceptably. I hope my
purpose will not interfere with your enterprise."

"Not at all, I think, except in the matter of some delay. I shall tender
the Bellevite as a free gift to the Government in a letter I shall send
on shore by my wife," replied Captain Passford. "But I shall offer to
do this only on my return from a trip I feel obliged to make in her.
I shall also offer my own services in any capacity in which I can be
useful; though, as I am not a naval officer like yourself, I cannot
expect a prominent position."

"Your ability fits you for almost any position; and, after a little
study of merely routine matters, you will be competent for almost any
command," added Captain Breaker.

"I do not expect that, and I am willing to do my duty in a humble
position," said the owner. "All that I am and all that I have shall be
for my country's use."

"I knew very well where we should find you if the troubles ended in a
war."

"My present enterprise will be rather irregular, as I have already said;
but the delay it would cause alone prevents me from giving the vessel to
the Government at once."

"As a man-of-war, the Bellevite could not be used for the purpose you
have in mind. The plan you have chosen is the only practicable one."

"Very well, Breaker. You had better pass the word through the ship's
company that the Bellevite will sail in an hour or two,--as soon as I
can finish my business; and if officer or seaman wishes to leave the
vessel, let him do so," added the owner, as he moved towards the
companionway.

"Not one of them will leave her under any circumstances," replied the
commander, as he went forward.

The word was passed, as suggested by the owner, and the result was to
set the greater part of the officers and men to writing letters for
their friends, to be sent on shore by the tug; but the captain warned
them not to say a word in regard to the destination of the steamer.

In another hour Captain Passford had completed his letters and papers,
including letters to the Secretary of the Navy, a power of attorney to
his wife which placed his entire fortune at her command, and other
documents which the hurried movements of the writer rendered necessary.

The owner and his son bade adieu to the wife and mother in the cabin;
and it is not necessary to penetrate the sacred privacy of such an
occasion, for it was a tender, sad, and trying ordeal to all of them.

All the letters were gathered together and committed to the care of the
lady as she went over the side to leave the floating home in which she
had lived for several months, for the family did not often desert their
palatial cabin for the poorer accommodations of a hotel on shore.

The pilot departed in the tug, and he was no wiser than when he came on
board in regard to the intentions of the owner of the steam-yacht. There
was an abundant supply of coal and provisions on board, for the vessel
was hardly three days from Bermuda when she came up with Sandy Hook; and
the commander gave the order to weigh anchor as soon as the tug cast off
her fasts.

"I suppose we are bound somewhere, Captain Passford," said Captain
Breaker, as soon as the vessel was fully under way. "But you have not
yet indicated to me our destination."

"Bermuda. The fact is that I have been so absorbed in the tremendous
news that came to us with the pilot, that I have not yet come to my
bearings," replied the owner with a smile. "My first duty now will be to
discuss our future movements with you; and when you have given out the
course, we will attend to that matter."

Captain Breaker called Mr. Joel Dashington, the first officer, to him,
and gave him the course of the ship, as indicated by the owner. He was
six feet and one inch in height, and as thin as a rail; but he was a
very wiry man, and it was said that he could stand more hunger, thirst,
exposure, and hardship than any other living man. He was a gentleman in
his manners, and had formerly been in command of a ship in the employ of
Captain Passford. He was not quite fifty years old, and he had seen
service in all parts of the world, and in his younger days had been a
master's mate in the navy.

The second officer was superintending the crew as they put things to
rights for the voyage. His person was in striking contrast with his
superior officer; for he weighed over two hundred pounds, and looked as
though he were better fitted for the occupancy of an alderman's chair
than for a position on the deck of a sea-going vessel. He was under
forty years of age, but he had also been in command of a bark in the
employ of his present owner.

"Of course we cannot undertake the difficult enterprise before us,
Breaker, without an armament of some sort," said Captain Passford, as
they halted at the companionway.

"I should say not, and I was wondering how you intended to manage in
this matter," replied the commander.

"I will tell you, for our first mission renders it necessary to give
some further orders before we go below," continued the owner. "We have
not a day or an hour to waste."

"The sooner we get at the main object of the expedition, the better will
be our chances of success."

"You remember that English brig which was wrecked on Mills Breaker,
while we were at Hamilton?"

"Very well indeed; and she was said to be loaded with a cargo of
improved guns, with the ammunition for them, which some enterprising
Britisher had brought over on speculation, for the use of the
Confederate army and navy,--if they ever have any navy," added Captain
Breaker.

"That is precisely the cargo to which I allude. The brig had a hole in
her bottom, but only a part of her was under water. The officers of the
vessel were confident that the entire cargo would be saved, with not
much of it in a damaged condition," added the owner.

"There has been no violent storm since we left St. George, hardly three
days ago," said the commander.

"I wish to obtain as much of this cargo as will be necessary to arm the
Bellevite properly for the expedition; and I have a double object in
obtaining it, even if I have to throw half of it into the Atlantic
Ocean."

"The fact that we need the guns and ammunition is reason enough for
trying to obtain the cargo."

"But I have the additional inducement of keeping it out of the hands
of the enemy, so that the guns shall be turned against the foes of the
Union instead of its friends. We must make a quick passage, so that,
if we lose this opportunity, it will not be our fault."

"I understand. Pass the word for Mr. Vapoor," added the commander to a
quartermaster who was taking in the ensign at the peak.

Mr. Vapoor was the chief engineer; though he was the youngest officer on
board, and really looked younger than Christy Passford.




CHAPTER V

THE BELLEVITE AND THOSE ON BOARD OF HER


Paul Vapoor was a genius, and that accounted for his position as chief
engineer at the age of twenty-two. He was born a machinist, and his
taste in that direction had made him a very hard student. His days and
a large portion of his nights, while in his teens, had been spent in
studying physics, chemistry, and, in fact, all the sciences which had
any bearing upon the life-work which nature rather than choice had given
him to do.

His father had been in easy circumstances formerly, so that there had
been nothing to interfere with his studies before he was of age. Up to
this period, he had spent much of his time in a large machine-shop,
working for nothing as though his daily bread depended upon his
exertions; and he was better qualified to run an engine than most men
who had served for years at the business, for he was a natural
scientist.

There was scarcely a part of an engine at which he had not worked with
his own hands as a volunteer, and he was as skilful with his hands as he
was deep with his head. Paul's father was an intimate friend of Captain
Passford; and when a sudden reverse of fortune swept away all the former
had, the latter gave the prodigy a place as assistant engineer on board
of his steam-yacht, from which, at the death of the former incumbent of
the position, he had been promoted to the head of the department. While
his talent and ability were of the highest order, of course his rapid
promotion was due to the favor of the owner of the Bellevite.

Captain Breaker, who had rather reluctantly assented to the placing in
charge of the engineer department a young man of only twenty-one, had no
occasion to regret that he had yielded his opinion to that of his owner.
Paul Vapoor had been found equal to all the requirements of the
situation, for the judgment of the young chief was almost as marvellous
as his genius.

Paul was gentle in his manners, and possessed a very lovable
disposition; in fact, he was almost a woman in all the tender
susceptibilities of his nature; and those who knew him best knew not
which to admire most, his genius or his magnetic character. Mr. Leon
Bolter, the first assistant engineer, was thirty-six years old; and
Mr. Fred Faggs, the second, was twenty-six. But there was neither envy,
jealousy, nor other ill-feeling in the soul of either in respect to his
superior; and they recognized the God-given genius of the chief more
fully than others could, for their education enabled them to understand
it better.

Paul Vapoor and Christy Passford were fast friends almost from the
first time they met; and they had been students together in the same
institution, though they were widely apart in their studies. They were
cronies in the strongest sense of the word, and the chief engineer would
have given up his very life for the son of his present employer. The
owner favored this intimacy, for he felt that he could not find in all
the world a better moral and intellectual model for his son.

Mr. Vapoor, as he was always called when on duty, even by the members of
the owner's family in spite of the fact that he seemed to be only a boy,
appeared on the quarter-deck of the steamer in answer to the summons of
the commander. He was neatly dressed in a suit of blue, with brass
buttons, though some of the oil and grime of the engine defaced his
uniform. He bowed, and touched his cap to the commander, in the most
respectful manner as he presented himself before him.

"For reasons which you will understand better, Mr. Vapoor, at a later
period, Captain Passford is in a great hurry to reach Bermuda, where we
are bound, at the earliest possible moment," the captain began. "Our
ordinary rate of speed is fourteen knots when we don't hurry her."

"That is what I make her do when not otherwise instructed," replied the
chief engineer.

"You assisted as a volunteer in building the engine of the Bellevite,
and you were in the engine-room during the whole of the trial trip,
three years ago," continued Captain Breaker with a smile on his face;
and a smile seemed to be a necessity in the presence of the young man.

"That is all very true, captain; and I was more interested in this
engine than I have ever been in any other, and it has fully realized my
strongest hopes."

"What speed did you get out of her on the trial trip?"

"Eighteen knots; but her machinery was new then. The order of Captain
Passford included the requirement that the engine of the vessel should
give her the greatest speed ever produced in a sea-going steamer, and
the Bellevite was built strong enough to bear such an engine. I believe
the company that built it fully met the requirement."

"What do you believe to be her best speed, Mr. Vapoor?"

"I have never had the opportunity to test it, but I believe that she
can make more than twenty knots, possibly twenty-two. You remember
that Captain Passford was in a desperate hurry to get from Messina to
Marseilles a year ago this month, and the Bellevite logged twenty knots
during nearly the whole of the trip," replied the engineer, with a
gentle smile of triumph on his handsome face, for he looked upon the
feat of the engine as he would upon a noble deed of his father.

"You made her shake on that trip, Mr. Vapoor."

"Not very much, sir. All the owner's family, including Miss Florry, were
on board then, and, if any thing had happened, I should have charged
myself with murder. I do not know what the Bellevite could do if the
occasion warranted me in taking any risk."

"I do not wish you to be reckless on the present emergency; but it is
of the utmost importance to save every hour we can, and the success or
failure of the expedition may depend upon a single hour. I will say no
more, though an accident to the engine would be a disaster to the
enterprise. I leave the matter with you, Mr. Vapoor," added the
commander, as he moved off.

"I understand you perfectly, Captain Breaker, and there shall be no
failure in the engine department to meet your wishes," replied the
chief, as he touched his cap and retired to the engine-room.

"I am waiting for you, Breaker," said Captain Passford, who was standing
near the companionway with Christy.

"Excuse me for a few minutes more, for there seems to be a strong
breeze coming up from the north-east, and I want to take a look at
the situation," replied the commander, and he hastened forward.

It had been bright sunshine when the pilot came on board: but suddenly
the wind had veered to an ugly quarter, and had just begun to pipe
up into something like half a gale. Captain Breaker went to the
pilot-house, looked at the barometer, and then directed Mr. Dashington
to crowd on all sail, for he intended to drive the vessel to her utmost
capacity.

The Bellevite was rigged as a barkantine; that is, she was square-rigged
on her foremast, like a ship, while her main and mizzen masts carried
only fore-and-aft sails, including gaff-topsails. The shrill pipe of the
boatswain immediately sounded through the vessel, and twenty-four able
seamen dashed to their stations. In a few minutes, every rag of canvas
which the steamer could carry was set. But the commander did not wait
for this to be done, but hastened to join the owner.

"I suppose you don't want me, sir," said Christy, as his father led the
way into the cabin.

"On the contrary, I do want you, Christy," replied Captain Passford, as
he halted, and the commander passed him on his way to the cabin. "I wish
you to understand as well as I do myself what we are going to do."

"I shall be very glad to know more about it," added Christy, pleased
with the confidence his father reposed in him in connection with the
serious undertaking before him.

"In the work I have to do, you stand nearer to me than any other person
on board," continued Captain Passford. "I know what you are, and you are
older than your sixteen years make you. It was at your age that Charles
XII. took command of the armies of Sweden, and he was more than a
figure-head in his forces."

"Sometimes I feel older than I am," suggested the boy.

"I believe in keeping a boy young as long as possible, and I have never
hurried you by putting you in an important place, though at one time I
thought of having a third officer, and assigning you to the position,
for the practice it would give you in real life; but I concluded that
you had better not be driven forward."

"I think I know something about handling a steamer, father."

"I know you do; though I have never told you so, for I did not care to
have you think too much of yourself. Now, in common with all the rest of
us, you are hurled into the presence of mighty events; and in a single
day from a boy you must become a man. You are my nearest representative
on board; and if any thing should happen to me, in the midst of the
perils of this expedition, a responsibility would fall upon you which
you cannot understand now. I wish to prepare you for it," said Captain
Passford, as he went down into the cabin.

The commander was already seated at the table, waiting for the owner;
and Captain Passford and Christy took places near him. The cabin was as
elegant and luxurious as money and taste could make it. In the large
state-room of the owner there was every thing to make a sea-voyage
comfortable and pleasant to one who had a liking for the ocean.

Leading from the main cabin were the state-rooms of Florence and
Christy. One of the four others was occupied by Dr. Linscott, the
surgeon of the ship, who had had abundant experience in his profession,
who had been an army surgeon in the Mexican war, though his health did
not permit him to practise on shore.

Another was occupied by the chief steward, who was a person of no little
consequence on board; while the others were appropriated to guests when
there were any, as was often the case when the Bellevite made short
voyages.

The trio at the table began the discussion of the subject before them
without delay; but it is not necessary to enter into its details, since,
whatever plans were made, they must still be subject to whatever
contingencies were presented when the time for action came.

Forward of the main cabin was what is called in naval parlance the
ward-room, and it was called by this name on board of the Bellevite. In
this apartment the officers next in rank below the commander took their
meals; and from it opened the state-rooms of the first and second
officers on the starboard-side, with one for the chief engineer on the
port-side, and another for his two assistants next abaft it.

The commander was an old friend of the owner, and messed with him in
the main cabin, though his state-room was a large apartment between the
cabin and the ward-room; the space on the opposite side of the ship
being used for the pantries and the bath-room.

Before the conference in the cabin had proceeded far, the motion of the
steamer, and the creaking of the timbers within her, indicated that
Mr. Vapoor was doing all that could be required of him in the matter of
speed, though the pressure of canvas steadied the vessel in the heavy
sea which the increasing breeze had suddenly produced. Before night, the
wind was blowing a full gale, and some reduction of sail became
necessary.

The Bellevite had the wind fair, and the most that was possible was made
of this accessory to her speed. At one time she actually logged the
twenty-two knots which the chief engineer had suggested as her limit,
and inside of two days she reached her destination. Christy had suddenly
become the active agent of his father, and he was the first to be sent
on shore to obtain information in regard to the guns and ammunition, for
it was thought that he would excite less suspicion than any other on
board.




CHAPTER VI

MR. PERCY PIERSON INTRODUCES HIMSELF


Christy procured the desired information on shore; and being but a boy,
he obtained no credit for the head he carried on his shoulders, so that
no attention was given to him when he made his investigation. At the
proper time Captain Passford appeared; but, as the guns and other war
material were intended for the other side in the conflict, he was
obliged to resort to a little strategy to obtain them.

But they were obtained, and the Bellevite was as fully armed and
prepared for an emergency as though she had been in the employ of the
Government, as it was intended that she should be when her present
mission was accomplished. During her stay at St. George, such changes
as were necessary to adapt the vessel to her enterprise--such as the
fitting up of a magazine--were completed, and the steamer sailed.

After a quick passage, the Bellevite arrived at New Providence, Nassau,
where she put in to obtain some needed supplies, as it was directly on
her course. Already there was not a little activity at the principal
foreign ports nearest to the Southern States, created by the hurried
operations of speculators anxious to profit by the war that was to come;
and later these harbors were the refuge of the blockade-runners.

The arrival of the Bellevite at New Providence created not a little
excitement among the Confederate sympathizers who had hastened there to
take advantage of the maritime situation, and to procure vessels for the
use of the South in the struggle. The steamer was painted black, and, as
she had been built after plans suggested by her owner, she was peculiar
in her construction to some extent, and her appearance baffled the
curiosity of the active Confederate patriots and speculators alike; for
both classes were represented there, though not yet in large numbers.

Captain Passford had instructed the commander to conceal all the facts
in regard to her, and no flag or any thing else which could betray her
nationality or character was allowed to be seen. The business of
obtaining the needed stores required many of the officers and men to go
on shore, but all of them were instructed to answer no questions. No one
was allowed to come on board.

"Good-morning, my friend," said a young man to Christy, as he landed on
the day after the arrival.

"Good-morning," replied the owner's son, civilly enough, as he looked
over the person addressing him, who appeared to be a young man not more
than eighteen years old.

"What steamer is that?" continued the stranger, pointing to the
steam-yacht.

Christy looked at his interlocutor, who was a pleasant-looking young
man, though there was something which did not appear to be quite natural
in his expression; and he suspected that he had been placed at the
landing to interrogate him or some other person from the steamer, in
regard to her character and nationality. Possibly he derived this idea
from the fact that he had himself been employed on a similar duty at St.
George.

"Do you mean that schooner?" asked Christy carelessly, as he pointed at
a vessel much nearer the shore than the Bellevite.

"No, not at all," replied the stranger. "I mean that steamer, off to the
north-east," replied the young man, pointing out into the bay.

"North-east?" added the owner's son. "That is this way;" and he turned
about, and directed his finger towards the interior of the island. "That
would put the craft you mean on the shore, wouldn't it?"

"Not a bit of it! I don't mean that way. Don't you know the points of
the compass?"

"I learned them when I was young, but I forget them now."

"Pray how old are you, my friend?" asked the stranger, who thought his
companion was stupid enough to answer any question he might put to him.

"I was forty-two yesterday; and in a year from yesterday, I shall be
forty-three, if I don't die of old age before that time," replied
Christy, looking the other full in the face, and with as serious an
expression as he could command.

"Forty-two! You are chaffing me. Didn't you come from that steamer over
there?" demanded the young man, pointing at the Bellevite again.

"No, sir. I came from China, from a place they call Shensibangerwhang.
Were you ever there?"

"I never was there, and I question if you were ever there."

"Do you mean to question my veracity?" demanded Christy, knitting his
brow.

"Oh, no, not at all!"

"Very well; and when you go to Shensibangerwhang, I shall be glad to see
you; and then I will endeavor to answer all the questions you desire to
ask."

"I thought you came from that steamer over there."

"Thought made a world, but it wasn't your thought that did it."

"Of course you know the name of that steamer."

"Oh, now I think of her name! That is the Chicherwitherwing, and she
belongs to the Chinese navy. She is sent out on a voyage of discovery to
find the north pole, which she expects to reach here in the West Indies.
When she finds it, I will let you know by mail, if you will give me your
address," rattled Christy with abundant self-possession.

"No, no, now! You are chaffing me."

"Do you know, brother mortal of mine, that I suspect you are a Yankee;
for they say they live on baked beans, and earn the money to buy the
pork for them by asking questions."

"I am not a Yankee; I am a long way from that."

"Then perhaps you sympathize with the meridonial section of the nation
on the other side of the Gulf Stream."

"Which section?" asked the stranger, looking a little puzzled.

"The meridonial section."

"Which is that? I don't know which meridian you mean."

"I mean no meridian. Perhaps the word is a little irregular; I studied
French when I was in the Bangerwhangerlang College in China, and I am
sometimes apt to get that language mixed up with some other. Let me see,
we were speaking just now, were we not?"

"I was."

"Sometimes I can't speak any English, and I had forgotten about it.
If you prefer to carry on this conversation in Hebrew or Hindostanee,
I shall not object," added Christy gravely.

"I think I can do better with English."

"Have your own way about it; but 'meridonial' in French means
'southern,' if you will excuse me for making the suggestion."

"Then I am meridonial," replied the stranger, and he seemed to make the
admission under the influence of a sudden impulse.

"Your hand on that!" promptly added Christy, extending his own.

"All right!" exclaimed the other. "My name is Percy Pierson. What is
yours?"

"Percy Pierson!" exclaimed Christy, starting back with astonishment, as
though his companion had fired a pistol in his face.

"What is the matter now?" demanded Percy Pierson, surprised at the
demonstration of the other.

"What did you say your name was? Did I understand you aright?"

"I said my name was Percy Pierson. Is there any thing surprising about
that?" asked Percy, puzzled at the demeanor of Christy.

"See here, my jolly high-flyer, who told you my name?" demanded the son
of the owner of the Bellevite, with a certain amount of indignation in
his manner.

"You did not, to be sure, though I asked you what it was."

"What sort of a game are you trying to play off on me? I am an innocent
young fellow of sixteen, and I don't like to have others playing tricks
on me. Who told you my name, if you please?"

"No one told me your name; and I don't know yet what it is, though I
have asked it of you."

"Oh, get away with you! You are playing off something on me which I
don't understand, and I think I had better bid you good-morning," added
Christy, as he started to move off.

"Then you won't tell me your name. Stay a minute."

"You know my name as well as I do, and you are up to some trick with
me," protested Christy, halting.

"'Pon my honor as a Southern gentleman, I don't know your name."

"If you are a Southern gentleman, I must believe you, for I did not come
from as far north as I might have come. My name is Percy Pierson," added
Christy seriously; for he felt that this was actually war, and that the
strategy that does not always or often speak the truth was justifiable.

"Percy Pierson!" exclaimed the real owner of the name. "Didn't I just
tell you that was my name?"

"Undoubtedly you did, and that is the reason why I thought you were
making game of me."

"But how can that be when my name is Percy Pierson?"

"Give it up; but I suggest that in London, where I came from, there are
acres of King Streets, almost as many Queens; and, though you may not be
aware of the fact, there are seven thousand two hundred and twenty-seven
native and foreign born citizens of the name of John Smith. Possibly you
and I are the only two Percy Piersons in the country, or in the world."

"Now you say you are from London, and a little while ago you said you
were from farther north than I am. Which is it?"

"Isn't London farther north than any Southern State?"

"Enough of this," continued Percy impatiently.

"Quite enough of it," assented Christy.

"Will you tell me what steamer that is, where she is bound, and what she
is here for?"

"My dear Mr. Pierson, it would take me forty-eight hours to tell you
all that," replied the representative of the Bellevite, taking out his
watch. "If you will meet me here to-morrow night at sundown, I will make
a beginning of the yarn, and I think I can finish it in two days. But
really you must excuse me now; for I have to dine with the Chinese
admiral at noon, and I must go at once."

"I can put the owner of that craft in the way of making a fortune for
himself, if he is willing to part with her," added Percy, as his
companion began to move off.

"That is just what the owner of that steamer wants to do: he desires to
part with her, and he is determined to get rid of her. I have the means
of knowing that he will let her go just as soon as he can possibly get
rid of her."

"Then he is the man my father wants to see; that is, if the vessel is
what she appears to be, for no one is allowed to go on board of her."

"I am sorry to tear myself away from you, but positively I must go now;
for the Chinese admiral will get very impatient if I am not on time, and
I have some important business with him before dinner," said Christy, as
he increased his pace and got away from Mr. Percy Pierson, though he was
afraid he would follow him.

But he did not; instead of doing so, he began to talk with a boatman who
had some kind of a craft at the landing. Christy was not in so much of a
hurry as he had appeared to be, and he waited in the vicinity till he
saw his Southern friend embark in a boat which headed for the Bellevite.
He concluded that his communicative friend meant to go on board of her,
thinking the vessel was for sale.




CHAPTER VII

A COMPLICATION AT GLENFIELD


The boat in which Christy had come on shore carried off to the steamer
the last load of supplies, and she sailed in the middle of the
afternoon. Captain Passford and Christy were standing on the quarter
deck together; and, as the latter had not had time to tell his father
his adventure before, he was now relating it.

The captain was amused with the story, and told his son that he had been
approached by a gentleman who said his name was Pierson, and he was
probably the father of the enterprising young man who had been so
zealous to assist in the purchase of a suitable vessel for the service
of the Confederates.

"Let me alone! Take you hands off of me!" shouted a voice that sounded
rather familiar to Christy, as he and his father were still talking on
the deck. "Let me alone! I am a Southern gentleman!"

"I know you are," replied Mr. Dashington, as he appeared on deck, coming
up from the companionway that led to the cabin and ward-room, holding by
the collar a young man who was struggling to escape from his strong
grasp. "Don't make a fuss, my hearty: I want to introduce you to the
captain."

"What have you got there, Mr. Dashington?" asked Captain Breaker, who
was standing near the owner.

"I have got a young cub who says he is a Southern gentleman; and I
suppose he is," replied the first officer. "But he is a stowaway, and
was hid away under my berth in the ward-room.--Here you are, my jolly
frisker: and that gentleman is the captain of the steamer."

As he spoke, the officer set his victim down rather heavily on the deck,
and he sprawled out at full length on the planks. But he was sputtering
with rage at the treatment he had received; and he sprang to his feet,
rushing towards Mr. Dashington as though he intended to annihilate him.
But, before he reached his intended victim, he stopped short, and eyed
the tall and wiry first officer from head to foot.

He concluded not to execute his purpose upon him, for he could hardly
have reached his chin if he resorted to violence. But he turned his back
to the captain, so that the owner and his son did not get a look at his
face. Captain Breaker walked up to him and began to question him.

"If you are a Southern gentleman, as I heard you say you were, don't
you think it is a little irregular to be hid in the ward-room of this
vessel?" was the first question the commander asked.

"I am what I said I was, and I am proud to say it; and I don't allow any
man to put his hands on me," blustered the prisoner.

"But I think you did allow Mr. Dashington to put his hands on you,"
replied the captain.

"Of course I did not know that he was a Southern gentleman when I snaked
him out from under the berth," added the first officer.

"I accept your apology," said the prisoner, coming down from his high
horse with sudden energy; possibly because he felt that he had a mission
on board of the steamer.

All present laughed heartily at the apology of the giant mate, and
Christy changed his position so that he could see the front of the
stowaway.

"Why, that is the gentleman I met on shore,--Mr. Percy Pierson!"
exclaimed the owner's son, as soon as he saw the face of his late
companion at the landing.

"I am glad to see you again, Mr. Percy Pierson," said the original of
that name, as he extended his hand to Christy.

"I did not expect to meet you again so soon, and under such
circumstances," replied he, taking the offered hand; for his father
had proclaimed his own principle on board, that, though the war was
not to be conducted on peace principles, it was to be carried on in an
enlightened, and even gentlemanly manner, so far as he was concerned.

"I am right glad to see you, Mr. Percy Pierson, for I think you can
assist me in the object I have in view," said the first officer's
victim, looking now as though he was entirely satisfied with himself.

"What do you mean by calling each other by the same name?" inquired
Captain Breaker, somewhat astonished at this phase of the conversation.

"That is the most astonishing thing in the world, that my friend here
should have the same name I have; and he even thought I was playing
a game upon him when I told him what my name was," replied Percy,
laughing, and apparently somewhat inflated to find a friend on board.

"Precisely so," interposed Captain Passford, before the commander had
time to say any thing more about the name. "But, as you both have the
same name, it will be necessary to distinguish you in some manner, or it
may make confusion while you remain on board."

"I see the point, sir, though I do not expect to remain on board for any
great length of time; or possibly you may not," answered Percy.

"Then, I suggest that you be called simply Percy, for that is a noble
name; and the other young man shall be addressed as Pierson. By doing
this we shall not sacrifice either of you," continued the owner, who did
not understand what his son had been doing.

"I have not the slightest objection. My friend Pierson gave me some
information in regard to this steamer which made me very desirous to
get on board of her. That must explain why I was found here under
circumstances somewhat irregular, though a true gentleman can sacrifice
himself to the needs of his suffering country."

"To what country do you allude, Mr. Percy?" asked Captain Passford.

"To _our_ country," replied Percy with strong and significant emphasis,
as though he were sure that this would cause him to be fully understood.

"Exactly so," added the owner.

"But I see that you are sailing away from Nassau as fast as you can, and
I think I had better explain my business as soon as possible," continued
Percy, who seemed to be as confident as though he had already
accomplished his purpose as hinted at in his conversation with Christy.

"I shall have to ask you to excuse me for a few minutes, for I have a
little business with the captain of the steamer and this young man,"
said Captain Passford. "The tall gentleman who so gracefully apologized
for his seeming rudeness to you will entertain you while I am absent."

The owner presented the tall first officer by name to his late victim,
and at the same time gave him a look which Mr. Dashington understood to
the effect that he was to keep the young man where he was. With a signal
to his son and to the captain, he went below.

"I do not understand this masquerade, Christy," said he, as he seated
himself at the cabin table. "What have you been telling this young
fellow?"

Christy had only informed his father that he had been approached by
Percy, and that he had, as well as he could, evaded his questions,
and he had fooled the young man. He then gave the substance of the
conversation at the landing, which amused both the owner and the
commander very much; though he could not recall the Chinese names,
invented on the spot, which he had used.

"All right, Christy. This young man is evidently the son of the
gentleman by the name of Pierson who approached me for the purpose of
purchasing the Bellevite. I went so far as to tell him that the vessel
was for service in Southern waters. At any rate, he inferred that she
was intended for the navy of the Confederate States, and I did not think
it necessary to undeceive him. With this belief, he sought no further to
buy the vessel, and I had no difficulty in shaking him off. It seems
that the same mission absorbs the attention of the son, and that he has
come on board to purchase the steamer."

  [Illustration: "Let Me alone, I am a Southern Gentleman" (Page 81)]

"I told him that you wanted to get rid of her, and that you would do so
soon, by which, of course, I meant that she was to go into the service
of the Government," added Christy.

"I should not have taken this young man on board; but, as he is here, he
may be of use to us. But it is necessary to conceal from him the real
character of the Bellevite, and we will keep up the farce as long as we
please. So far as he is concerned, Christy, you may be my nephew instead
of my son."

Captain Passford led the way back to the deck, where they found the
first officer evidently on the best of terms with his prisoner. But Mr.
Dashington had been as discreet as a man could be, and Percy had not
obtained a particle of information from him.

"Now, Mr. Percy, I am at your service," said the owner, when he reached
the deck. "I think you said you had some business with me."

"I have not the pleasure of knowing who or what you are, sir; and Mr.
Dashington and my friend Mr. Pierson are all I know on board by name,"
added Percy.

"Then you must be made better acquainted before any thing can be done,"
replied the owner, pointing to the captain of the steamer. "Mr. Percy,
this is Captain Breaker, the commander of the steamer."

"And this," added Captain Breaker, pointing at the owner, "is Captain
Passford, who is the fortunate owner of this vessel, though she is soon
to pass into other hands."

"Captain Passford!" exclaimed Percy, bowing to both gentlemen as he
was presented to them. "That is a familiar name to me; and upon my word,
I thought it was Colonel Passford of Glenfield when I first looked at
him."

"He is my brother; but I never heard him called 'colonel' before," added
the owner, laughing at the odd-sounding title, as it was to him.

"Colonel Homer Passford is the name by which he is often called near his
residence," Percy explained. "He is the nearest neighbor of my father,
Colonel Richard Pierson."

"Indeed! then you probably know my brother," said Captain Passford,
interested in spite of himself.

"As well as I know any gentleman in the State of Alabama," replied
Percy. "By the great palmetto! you are Colonel Passford's brother; and
I think you must know Miss Florence Passford, who has been staying all
winter with her uncle."

"She is my daughter," replied the owner with some emotion, which he
could not wholly conceal when he thought of his mission in the South.

"I have met her several times, though not often, for I have been away
from home at school. But my brother, Major Lindley Pierson, I learn from
my letters, is a frequent visitor at your brother's house: and they even
say"--

But Percy did not repeat what they said, though he had gone far enough
to give the father of Florry something like a shock.

"What were you about to say, Mr. Percy?" he asked.

"I think I had better not say it, for it may have been a mere idle
rumor," answered Percy, who was now beginning to disclose some of his
better traits of character.

"Does it relate to my daughter, sir?" asked the captain rather sternly;
for, in the present condition of the country, he was more than
ordinarily anxious about his daughter.

"I ought not to have said any thing, sir; but what I was about to say,
but did not say, does relate to Miss Florence," replied Percy, not a
little embarrassed by the situation. "But I assure you, sir, that it was
nothing that reflects in the slightest degree upon her. As I have said
so much, I may as well say the rest of it, or you will think more than
was intended was meant."

"That is the proper view to take of it, Mr. Percy."

"It was simply said that my brother Lindley was strongly attracted to
your brother's house by the presence of your daughter. That is all."

But the fond father was very anxious. Of course the major was a
Confederate.




CHAPTER VIII

A DISCONSOLATE PURCHASER OF VESSELS


The information in regard to Florry was very meagre and very indefinite.
She was a very beautiful young lady of eighteen; and it was not at all
strange that a young Confederate officer should be attracted to her,
though the thought of it was exceedingly disagreeable to her father,
under present circumstances.

Percy evidently was not satisfied with the situation; and after he had
given the information which had so disturbed the owner of the steamer,
he desired to change the subject of the conversation, to which Captain
Passford only assented after he realized that nothing could be
ascertained from him in regard to his daughter.

"I don't think I quite understand the situation on board of this
steamer," said Percy, when he had told all he knew about the visits of
his brother at Glenfield.

"What further do you desire to know in regard to her?" asked Captain
Passford; for the commander, when he saw that there was a family matter
involved in the conversation, was disposed to be very reticent.

"I did not come on board of this vessel in the manner I did--I do not
even know her name yet," continued Percy; and when he found that he was
talking to a brother of Colonel Passford, he dropped all his rather
magnificent airs, and became quite sensible.

"The steamer is called the Bellevite," replied the owner.

"The Bellevite. It is an odd name, but I think I can remember it. I was
about to say that I did not come on board of her, as I did, without an
object; for I assure you that I am high-toned enough not to do any thing
in an irregular manner unless for the most weighty reasons," said Percy,
with an anxious look directed towards the island, which was now almost
out of sight.

"I do not ask your reasons; but, if you wish to give them, I will hear
all you have to say, Mr. Percy," replied the owner.

"I talked with Mr. Pierson on shore; and though he was disposed at first
to chaff me, and avoid giving me any information in regard to this
steamer, he afterwards informed me that the gentleman who owned her
intended to get rid of her as soon as he could."

"And you came on board for the purpose of buying her?" suggested Captain
Passford.

"I did not expect to buy her myself, of course; but my father is
exceedingly anxious to obtain a steamer like this one, and he asked me
to do what I could to obtain any information in regard to her. That was
the object which brought me on board of her in a clandestine manner."

"You were very zealous in meeting the wishes of your father."

"More than that, I was at work in a good cause; and I think I have
patriotism enough to do my duty to my country in the hour of her need,"
added the young man, with a swell of the chest.

"After his family, a man's first duty is to his country," said the
owner.

"I wanted to go into the army, for I am eighteen years old; but my
father insisted that I could be of more service to the Confederacy as
his assistant in obtaining vessels for its use."

"I understand your motives."

"From what I learned from Mr. Pierson,--though I do not yet know who or
what he is," said Percy, bestowing a smiling glance upon Christy.

"You may look upon him as my nephew," added Captain Passford, glancing
at his son, who gave a slight bow for the benefit of the guest on board.

"From what I could learn from your nephew, sir, I concluded that this
steamer could be bought, if I could only obtain an interview with the
owner," continued Percy, with an inquiring glance at all who were
present "I understand you are the owner of the vessel, Captain
Passford."

"You are quite right: she has been my yacht since she was built, and a
stronger and more able vessel was never put into the water."

"Mr. Pierson gave me to understand that he was in sympathy with the
Confederacy; and since I came on board, and learned that you were a
brother of our nearest neighbor, I have no difficulty in arriving at the
conclusion that you are a devoted friend of the Southern cause."

"What I am, for the present, I do not feel at liberty to say," replied
Captain Passford, who was certainly reluctant to play a double part
before the young man, though he felt that the necessities of the
occasion required him to do so.

"Quite right, sir; one cannot be too cautious in these times. But it
is time for me to say that I did not intend to take passage in the
Bellevite, and I am sure my father will be very anxious in my absence."

"May I ask how you did intend to proceed?"

"I can hardly tell myself, sir; but my object was to see the owner as
soon as I could discover who he was. But I have found you now, Captain
Passford, and I am glad to find in you a friend of our holy cause."

The owner only bowed; and it was as true as it could be that the
representative of the intended purchaser of vessels jumped at nearly all
of his conclusions, giving the captain but little occasion to say any
thing that was not literally true; though the deception was just as real
as though it had been carried on with actual falsehood.

"May I ask you for a few minutes in private, Captain Passford?"
continued Percy.

"Certainly;" and the owner retired with him to the weather-rail.

"I have seen this vessel, and I have heard what you say of her. Now I am
better informed in regard to her than my father is. I am not authorized
to name a price, but I am very sure that he will buy her."

"So he said to me himself, Mr. Percy," added the owner with a smile.

"He said so to you, sir!" exclaimed the young man, starting back; for he
believed that he had accomplished all that had been done towards buying
the vessel.

"I had an interview with him, and stated most explicitly that the
Bellevite could not be purchased by any person at any price; and when
I hinted very guardedly to him, as I do to you, in the strictest
confidence, that I am hound for Mobile Bay, he did not urge the matter.
He was satisfied that the steamer was to be used in a good cause; and I
can give you the same assurance, Mr. Percy."

The young man looked positively humble after he had listened to the
remark of the owner, for he felt that his father had "taken all the wind
out of his sails." He looked in the direction of the receding island of
Nassau, and realized that he had been wasting his time, to say nothing
of the wasted strategy he had bestowed on his enterprise.

"You have stated that you are bound for Mobile Bay, sir," said he.
"That is a long distance from New Providence, as I have learned from
experience."

"But this trip will give you the satisfaction of being restored to your
own home in a very short time, for there is no faster vessel afloat than
the Bellevite," added Captain Passford.

"It will put me into the army," said Mr. Percy; but he felt at once that
he had made a slip of the tongue, and he hastened to correct the effect
of his involuntary speech. "Of course, I wanted to go into the army of
my country, as every patriotic fellow in the South does; but my father
objects simply because I can be of more service to the good cause in
another field of action, and I had to yield the point."

The owner thought he had not been guilty of a very savage yielding of
his own inclination, but he said nothing. He was evidently the youngest
child of the family, and doubtless the pet of his parents; and it was
hard for them to put him in a position to be shot, or to endure the
hardships of the camp.

"I see now that my mission is a failure, though with no detriment to the
good cause. I wish I was in New Providence again," continued Mr. Percy,
looking very much discontented with himself.

"I am sorry you did not speak to me on shore as your father did, and
that would have saved you from all annoyance."

"But I must beg you to do me the favor to put me ashore again, for my
father will suffer untold agonies when he misses me to-night."

"Put you on shore!" exclaimed Captain Passford. "You are a sensible and
reasonable young gentleman, and you will readily see that this is quite
impossible."

"We have not been out above two hours, sir," suggested Percy.

"But we have made thirty-six miles, at least, in that time; and to
return would delay me about four or five hours,--long enough, perhaps,
to defeat the object of my voyage. I assure you that it is wholly
impossible for us to return."

"Do you think so, sir?" asked the enterprising purchaser of vessels,
looking very disconsolate indeed.

"I not only think so, but I am perfectly sure on this point. You can see
for yourself that I cannot sacrifice the object of my voyage--for the
vessel has a special mission at her destination--by a delay of some
hours. I am not responsible for your being on board, and I am sorry that
I cannot do any thing for you."

"But you can put me ashore at Key West, and I may find some vessel bound
to Nassau," suggested Percy, becoming more and more disconsolate, as he
realized the difficulties of his situation, for he was plainly very much
averse to returning to his home.

"But, my dear Mr. Percy, the Bellevite will not go within fifty miles
of Key West; and if she did, I should not dare to put in there, for the
port is a naval station of the United States, and my vessel might be
taken from me in the absence of any regular papers to explain her
character."

"I suppose you are right," added Percy gloomily.

Captain Passford was really more afraid of falling in with any naval
vessel of the nation than of meeting any of the Confederate tugs or
other vessels which had been hurriedly fitted out, even at this early
period of the war; for he knew that his mission, however justifiable
under the circumstances, was quite irregular. He had decided to keep at
least fifty miles from Key West, and the usual course of vessels bound
into the Gulf of Mexico.

"We may meet some vessel, and you could put me on board of her," the
disconsolate young man proposed.

"My mission compels me to give every vessel a wide berth, and I can
incur no risks. But it cannot be a great hardship for you to be conveyed
back to your own home."

"But my father needs me with him, and he will suffer terrible anxiety
when he fails to find me. He will even think I am dead."

"I know he must be anxious, but I think some way will be found to send a
letter to him."

"But I shall be compelled to go into the army, and my father is utterly
opposed to that."

"But you have a brother who is a major in the army, and I should say
that he will be able to save you."

"My brother is the one who insists that I shall go into one of the
regiments forming in the State. He called me a coward because I yielded
to my father and mother."

"All that is your own family affair, and I am sorry that I can do
nothing for you, Mr, Percy.--Mr. Watts," he called to the chief steward,
who was planking the lee-side of the deck.

"Here, sir," replied the official.

"Give Mr. Percy the best stateroom available, and see that he is made as
comfortable and happy as possible," added the owner.

The involuntary guest on board was conducted to the cabin.




CHAPTER IX

CHRISTY MATURES A PROMISING SCHEME


However interesting the voyage of the Bellevite might prove to be, the
purpose of this story does not admit of its details. Mr. Vapoor was
instructed to the effect that a quick run was desirable, and he governed
himself accordingly. At daylight on a bright May morning, the lofty
light tower of Sand Island, off the entrance to Mobile Bay, was reported
by the lookout, and the captain was called.

On the passage from Nassau, the guns of the steamer had been mounted;
for, as a measure of prudence, they had been put in the hold. Though the
owner hoped to avoid any close scrutiny of his outfit, and had succeeded
in doing so, he was not inclined to tempt fate by any carelessness. But
when the first watch was called, the night before her arrival off the
bay, every thing was in condition for active service.

Captain Passford had not a particle of the foam generated by the
excitement of the times, and he sincerely hoped he should have no
occasion to use the guns which it had cost him so much trouble to
procure. Fort Morgan was on one side of the entrance to the bay, and
Fort Games on the other side.

He had seen a paragraph in one of his papers, to the effect that one or
both of these works had been garrisoned by Confederate troops, and it
was not likely to be an easy matter to get into the bay. As it looked to
the owner and the commander, the only way to accomplish this feat was by
running the gauntlet of both forts, which were just three nautical miles
apart.

A shot from either of them might go through the boiler or engine of the
Bellevite, which would render her utterly helpless, and subject all on
board to the fate of prisoners-of-war. It looked like a terrible
alternative to the owner, so overburdened with anxiety for the safety of
his daughter; but he was prepared to run even this risk for her sake.

The method of getting into the bay had been fully considered by the
owner and the captain; and as soon as the latter came on deck, he
ordered the course of the vessel to be changed to the westward, as they
had decided to enter the bay by the Middle Channel. For the danger from
Fort Gaines was believed to be less than that from Fort Morgan, though
either of them doubtless had the means of sinking the steamer with a
single shot.

The water was shoal in the Middle Channel, and it was not prudent to
attempt to go into the bay at any other time than high tide; though
Captain Breaker was thoroughly acquainted with the channel, having once
been engaged in a survey of the shifting shoals in this locality, and he
had once before taken the Bellevite by this passage on a trip to New
Orleans.

As he could not foresee the time of the steamer's arrival off the bay,
he was obliged to consult his almanac, and make his calculations in
regard to the tide, which rises and falls less than three feet at this
point. It would not be safe to attempt the passage before nine o'clock
in the forenoon, and he headed the vessel away from the land.

Percy had tried to make the best of his situation, annoying as it was;
and Christy amused him with more Chinese reminiscences. Both of them
came on deck at an unusually early hour on the morning that the Sand
Island light was made out; for there was more commotion than usual on
board, and even in the cabin, where the owner and commander discussed
the situation.

"Here we are, my Chinese friend," said Percy, as he joined Christy on
deck, and made out the tall tower in the distance. "I wish I was on the
Island of Nassau, instead of here."

"Why, Mr. Percy, this is your own, your native land; and in China we
always used to have a warm affection for our own country," replied
Christy.

"You didn't have to go into the army there," said Percy with a sigh.

"But don't you want to go into the army?"

"Certainly I do; that is the dearest wish of my heart. But my father
would not let me, and what could I do?"

"If you were bent on it, like a patriot, as you must be, you could run
away and enlist. I don't know but I shall do that when I get back to
China."

"I don't like to do any thing to make my poor father unhappy. I am
afraid my absence now, without his knowing where I am, or whether I am
dead or alive, will bring on a fit of sickness."

"But I am sure he would be very proud of you if you should run away and
join the army."

"Perhaps he would; but I should not feel very proud of myself if I did
a thing like that. I am only afraid I shall meet my brother, Major
Pierson, and that he will make me go into some regiment against the
wishes of my father and mother. He is not willing to hear a word from
either of them," replied Percy, disgusted with the prospect before him.

"He is very patriotic," suggested Christy.

"He is altogether too patriotic for me. But don't misunderstand me: I am
really very anxious to go into the army, and fight the enemies of my
country."

"I see that you are, and perhaps you and I had better run away and
enlist."

"My conscience would not let me do that contrary to the wishes of my
parents," replied Percy, shaking his head vigorously.

"But you may not see your brother the major; for probably he has been
ordered away with his regiment before this time," said his companion in
comforting tones, though he was not as sincere as he generally was.

"I am afraid I shall; and I fear, that, in the absence of my father, he
would put me into the ranks in spite of all I could do."

"But your mother is at home."

"Lindley don't care a rush for what she says in this matter, for he
insists that a boy of eighteen ought not to be tied to his mother's
apron-strings when his country needs his services, I may see my brother
before we get fairly into the bay."

"Where in the world are you going to see him before you get on shore?"
asked Christy, becoming more interested in the conversation.

"I believe he is in command of the garrison at Fort Gaines, though I am
not sure," replied Percy, suddenly looking more disconsolate than ever
at the prospect of meeting his patriotic brother.

"What makes you think he is?" asked Christy, with the feeling that he
might be on the point of obtaining some useful information.

"They talked of sending him there before father and I left for New
Providence."

"I supposed your brother was a young fellow like yourself."

"I believe he is twenty-six years old; but he has been two years in a
military school in North Carolina, and they say he is a good soldier,
and knows all about guns and forts and such things."

"Where do you think we are likely to overhaul him?"

"I don't know much about this business; but don't a boat have to come
out from the fort and see that this vessel is all right before she can
go into the bay?" asked Percy.

"I don't know about that. We may run into the bay without waiting for
any boat."

"Then they fire on you from the fort," suggested the disconsolate.

"We rather expect that," added Christy quietly.

"You do?"

"Of course, a shot from the fort may blow us out of the water; but we
can't help that, and we must take our chances of being hit."

"But that is terribly risky business, and the whole of us may be killed
before we get by the fort."

"Of course: that may be the case; but we have no papers, and we have to
take things as they come."

"It isn't pleasant to take cannon-balls as they come, for they are apt
to hit hard. But they won't fire at us if a boat comes off to examine
the vessel."

"But in that case you will have the pleasure of meeting your brother the
major."

"And whatever he may do with the steamer, he will take me to the fort
with him, and put me into the ranks."

"Perhaps we can save you from such a fate in some way," suggested
Christy, who was already doing some heavy thinking on his own account.

"I wish you would!" exclaimed Percy, catching at the straw held out to
him.

"There is time enough, and I will see you again," added Christy, as he
joined his father on the forecastle, where lie was taking a survey.

The owner's son had an idea, and he thought it was a good one. Without
losing any time, he laid it before his father, explaining it in detail.
He was even ready to remove objections to the scheme, and was confident
that it would succeed. Captain Passford called the commander, and
informed him what his son had suggested. Captain Breaker heartily
approved it; for, if it failed, it would leave the steamer in no worse
position than before, with all her chances of running the gauntlet
successfully still open to her.

Christy was the best person on board to manage the details, for he was
the most intimate with the son of the purchaser of vessels. He returned
to that part of the deck where he had left his companion. He found that
Percy was very anxious to see him again, for he had founded a hope on
what had been said before.

"I think we can manage it, Mr. Percy, if you will do just what you are
told to do," Christy began.

"I will do all that to the letter," protested Percy; and a smile
actually lighted up his face at the prospect of escaping the fate to
which his father and mother objected so strongly.

"You see the trouble with the Bellevite is that she has no papers; not
even a letter from the Confederate agent who is picking up vessels for
the navy. But I think we can manage it if you will learn your part
correctly."

"I will do that. Do you think you can really keep my brother from taking
me to the fort?" asked Percy, his tones and manner burdened with
anxiety.

"I feel almost sure of it."

"Good for you!"

"You must go into the cabin now with me. They are just starting up the
steamer again, and she will soon reach the channel where she is going
into the bay."

The owner and the commander were busy in instructing the ship's company
in regard to what would be expected of them as soon as the Bellevite was
in motion again. All the men spoken to smiled as they heard what was
said to them, and they evidently regarded the whole affair as a decided
pleasantry. But they all promised to be very discreet, and to say only
what they had been told to say if they were called on for any
information by Confederate officials.

In the mean time Christy was very busy with his pupil, who entered
heartily into the plan which promised to save him from shouldering a
musket in one of the companies of his brother's regiment. He had been
quite enthusiastic from the first; and, as he was deeply interested in
the result of the adventure, he was a very apt pupil.

As the Bellevite approached the Middle Channel, a tug-boat was
discovered off Fort Gaines, which immediately began to move towards the
approaching steamer. Examined with the glass, a heavy gun was seen on
her forecastle.




CHAPTER X

THE ATTEMPT TO PASS INTO MOBILE BAY


The tug appeared to be one of the craft which had been hastily prepared
for service, and she did not look like a formidable vessel. Captain
Breaker was sure he could blow her out of the water with his heavy guns,
on an emergency; but this would be bad policy, and he did not propose to
do any thing of this kind.

He was not as confident as Captain Passford and his son were that the
plan adopted would be an entire success, with the assistance of Percy;
but there could be no harm in trying it. He intended to pass as near
Fort Gaines as possible, for it was not probable that the works were
yet in the best condition; and two miles from Fort Morgan, which was
doubtless much stronger, would afford a better chance of escaping any
shots fired from it.

As the Bellevite approached the channel, where there could not be more
than a foot of water under her keel, Christie came on deck, followed by
Percy. The latter wore a sort of naval uniform, which his instructor had
borrowed for him from his own stock. It fitted him well; for he was no
larger than the owner's son, though he was two years older.

Percy was to be on duty, on board of the steamer, as a Confederate agent
taking the vessel into the bay for service. He was not a little inflated
by the position which had been assigned to him, though he had no powers
whatever, except in appearance. He had been instructed to conduct
himself boldly, and to insist that the vessel was in his charge, when
she was boarded by officers from the tug or from the fort. His very
nature inclined him to play this part to the best advantage.

The blockade had been established at some of the northern ports of the
seceded States, but not yet at the cities on the Gulf of Mexico; and
the only real obstacle to the passage of the Bellevite into the bay
consisted of the two forts, for the tug-boats were not regarded as of
any consequence to an armed steamer of great speed like the Bellevite,

"We are approaching the shoal water now," said Captain Breaker to Mr.
Vapoor, as the steamer came near the south-eastern end of Pelican
Island. "We may take the ground, for the shoals have an ugly trick of
changing their position. Let her go at about half speed."

"Half speed, sir," replied the chief engineer, as he descended to the
engine-room.

"Is it fully high tide now, Breaker?" asked Captain Passford, who was
watching the movements of the vessel with the most intense interest, for
it seemed to him that the critical moment in his enterprise had come.

"Not quite; it will not be full sea for about half an hour," replied the
commander. "If we take the ground, we shall have some small chance of
getting off.--Mr. Dashington."

"On duty, sir," responded the first officer.

"Beeks has the wheel, I believe?"

"Yes; and Thayer is with him."

"They are both reliable men; but I wish you would stand by the helm,
and see that the steamer is headed directly towards the eastern end of
Dauphine Island. That will give us the deepest water till we get to the
spit. Have a man in the port and starboard chains with directions to
sound as fast as possible."

"Mr. Blowitt," called the first officer, "let a hand sound in the port
and starboard chains, and look out for it yourself, if you please."

The second officer went forward and the first officer aft, each to
perform the duties assigned to him by the captain. The speed of the
Bellevite had been reduced, and she was going along at a very easy rate.
The tug was some distance beyond Fort Gaines when she was first seen,
and she seemed to be incapable of making more than six knots an hour.

The steamer had taken on board all the coal it was possible for her to
stow away in her bunkers, and a large supply had been put into the hold;
but she had used a considerable portion of it in her rapid passage,
though she had still an abundant supply for her return voyage. The
reduction in the quantity had made her draught somewhat less, and the
owner and captain hoped she would get through the channel.

But the thought had hardly passed through their minds before the
Bellevite came to a sudden stop, and her keel was heard grinding on
the bottom. Mr. Vapoor heard the sound in the engine-room, and felt the
jar; and before any bell came to him, he had stopped the machine, and
reversed it so as to check the steamer's headway.

"Run her back with all the steam you can crowd on, Mr. Vapoor," said
Captain Breaker, as he hastened to the door of the engine-room.

"I don't think she hit the ground very hard, captain," added the chief
engineer.

"No; she will come off. The ground has shifted since I was here last,"
said the captain of the vessel.

But it was half an hour before she yielded to the pressure brought to
bear upon her, and then only because a few inches had been added by the
tide to the depth of water. She went back, and came into depth enough to
give her a foot under her keel.

"It don't look very hopeful," said Captain Passford, as he joined the
commander at the door of the engine-room.

"Oh, I think we shall be all right now!" replied Captain Breaker very
cheerfully. "I have found where the shoal is now, and I know where to
find deeper water.--Keep her going astern, Mr. Vapoor."

"A boat from the fort, sir," reported a messenger, who had been sent aft
by the second officer on the forecastle.

"That looks like an inquiry into our business here," added the owner.

"Now we are all right," said the commander, who was watching the
position of the vessel very carefully. "I must go to the wheel, and look
out for the course myself."

Again the Bellevite went ahead; and she soon reached a point half way
between the two forts, and her speed was reduced to not more than three
knots. But the tug was approaching, and the worst part of the channel
was still to be attempted. The two men in the chains reported the depth
as rapidly as they could heave the lead, and it was soon evident that
the steamer could not pass the extensive bar to the westward of the
ship-channel.

"Steamer ahoy!" shouted the captain of the tug, as he stopped his screw
within hailing-distance of the Bellevite.

"Reply to that hail, Mr. Percy," said the commander to the young
gentleman in uniform. "You must do all the talking."

"I shall be very happy to do it, and I think I can do it to your
satisfaction," replied Percy confidently.

"Jump up on the rail nearest to the tug, where you can see and hear."

"I am not much of a sailor, Captain Breaker, and I don't pretend to be
one," added Percy. "What shall I say to the captain of that boat?"

"On board of the tug!" shouted the agent of his father, after the
commander had instructed him in regard to his speech.

"What steamer is that?" demanded the master of the tug.

Captain Breaker instructed him in what manner to make his reply, though
he did not tell him what to say. The young man was to explain the
character of the vessel as he understood it; and neither the commander
nor the owner was disposed to indulge in any unnecessary strategetical
falsehood, though they felt that they could do so in the service of the
Union.

"The Bellevite from Nassau," replied Percy.

"Is she a Federal vessel?" inquired the captain of the tug with the
greatest simplicity.

"A Federal vessel!" exclaimed Percy, evidently expressing by his manner
some of the indignation he felt. "Do you mean to insult me, sir?"

"No, I do not mean to insult you; but it becomes necessary for me to
ascertain something more in regard to the steamer," returned the other.
"Where are you from?"

"I told you the vessel was from Nassau."

"But she don't hail from Nassau. Where did she come from before that?"

"From Bermuda," answered Percy, as instructed.

"But she don't belong to Bermuda."

The volunteer agent of the Confederate cause was not able to answer any
questions in this direction, and the commander did not tell him what
more to say.

"Can you tell me who is in command of Fort Gaines at the present time?"
demanded Percy, branching out on his own account.

"I can; but I want you to tell me something more about the steamer,
before I answer any questions. Is the steamer armed?"

"She is armed; and she could blow your tug into ten thousand pieces
in four minutes if she should open upon you," added Percy; and the
listeners were of the opinion that he was beginning to use strong
speech.

"That may be; but with a fort on each side of you, I don't think you
will get into the bay in broad daylight," said the captain of the tug.
"The commander of Fort Gaines is in that boat, and I suppose he is
coming off to examine the steamer. As you are not disposed to answer my
questions, you can wait for him; but if you try to get into the bay, you
will find that a shot from both forts can reach you."

"I am an agent of the Confederate government, and my father has been
sent to Nassau to obtain vessels for our navy," continued Percy, as he
saw that the boat from the fort was still some distance from the vessel.

"Why didn't you say so before?" demanded the captain of the tug rather
impatiently. "Of course you have some papers from the agent at Nassau,
to show what the vessel is."

"Not a single paper; he had no time to give me any."

"Who is the agent?"

The question was evidently put as a test; for if the young agent, as
the captain could see that he was, gave a known name, it would be some
evidence that he told the truth.

"Colonel Richard Pierson; and he is my father."

"Your father!" exclaimed the other, evidently impressed with the fact,
and his tone was more respectful.

"You can come on board and see her for yourself," suggested Percy,
prompted by the commander; for there was nothing on board to betray her
true character, the guns having been concealed.

"I will not do that, as the commander of the fort will soon be here, and
he may make the examination for himself. But perhaps you will be willing
to give me your name?" added the captain.

"My name is Percy Pierson; and, as I told you, I am the son of Colonel
Richard Pierson."

"Then you are the brother of Major Pierson, who is in command of Fort
Gaines. I think it must be all right."

"Of course it is all right. Do you think I would bring a vessel into
this bay if she were not all right?" inquired Percy with becoming
indignation.

"I suppose you have heard there is going to be a war, and it is
necessary to find out what vessels go into the bay," said the captain of
the tug, when he had brought his craft quite near the steamer. "That is
a very fine vessel."

"It is the fastest and strongest steamer that floats, and she will give
a good account of herself when the trouble begins in earnest."

"Here comes the boat from the fort, and I see that Major Pierson is in
the stern sheets. I have no doubt he will find you all right," said the
captain.

The boat came alongside of the Bellevite, and the major went on board.




CHAPTER XI

THE MAJOR IN COMMAND OF FORT GAINES


Percy Pierson retained his position on the rail when his brother the
major came up the gangway steps, which had been put over for him. As
the latter went up, he could not help seeing him; and his astonishment
evidently mounted to the highest degree, as manifested in his
expression. The owner and the commander stood near the rail, to give
the visitor a pleasant reception.

But the major took no notice of them; for his attention was plainly
absorbed in his surprise at seeing his brother, dressed in uniform, on
the rail of the steamer. He halted as soon as he had mounted the rail,
over which he must pass to reach the deck. He looked at Percy for some
time, without being able to say a word, and seemed to be not quite sure
that it was he.

The younger brother was as silent as the older one; for he had had some
rather exciting times with him in the matter of enlisting, and he was
not very confident of his reception at the hands of the commander of
Fort Gaines. He looked at him with interest, not unmingled with some
painful solicitude for the future.

"Percy!" exclaimed Major Pierson at last, when he was entirely satisfied
that the young man was his brother, in spite of the uniform of blue he
wore, though the gray had not yet come into extensive use.

"Lindley!" added the younger, evidently desiring to go no faster than
the occasion might require of him.

"I am glad to see you back again," continued the major, without offering
to take his hand. "You deserted like a coward, and I have been ashamed
of you ever since. A young fellow like you, eighteen years old, who will
not fight for his country, ought to lose the respect of even his own
brother."

"That is a pleasant greeting," replied Percy, with the suspicion of a
sneer on his face.

"It is all that a coward deserves," replied Lindley severely.

"I am no coward, any more than you are," protested Percy. "You know that
father did not wish me to join the army, though I wished to do so."

"I know that you wished to do so just as any other coward does,--over
the left."

"What could I do when father told me not to go to the war?"

"What could you do? You could have gone! If you had not been a poltroon,
you would have joined the first regiment that came in your way."

"I never was in the habit of disobeying my father," pleaded the young
agent.

"You were not? You ran away to New Orleans last winter when your father
told you not to go. You came home from the academy when he told you to
remain there. You have spent the evening in Mobile when he told you not
to go there. I could tell you instances all day in which you disobeyed
him, and mother too," continued the soldier warmly.

"That was different."

"It was different; and you could obey your father in a bad cause, but
not in a good one. I am heartily ashamed of you, and I don't feel
willing to own you as a brother of mine."

"But my father told me that I could better serve the good cause by going
with him than I could by joining the army."

"And you were willing to go with him, for then you could keep out of
danger. Father is getting old, and he is not fit to serve in the army;
and you have been his pet since you were born. But that is no excuse for
you; and if I can get you back into the army, I mean to do so."

Percy was afraid he might succeed, and he did not feel as confident as
he had been; and he lost, for the time, some of his self-possession. He
was confronting the fate he had dreaded when he found the steamer was
leaving Nassau.

"What are you doing here?" demanded the major, looking down upon the
deck of the vessel for the first time.

"I am taking this steamer into the bay, where she is to go into the
service of the Confederate States," answered Percy, plucking a little
more confidence from the nature of his present occupation.

"You are taking her into the bay!" exclaimed the older brother.

"That is what I said, and that is what I mean," added Percy, glad to see
that his mission had produced an impression.

"Taking this steamer into the bay!" repeated the major, evidently unable
to comprehend the mission of his brother. "Do you mean to say that _you_
are taking her in, Percy?"

"That is what I mean to say, and do say."

"Are you the pilot of the steamer? I should think you might have been,
for she was aground just now," sneered the commander of the fort.

"I am not the pilot, and I don't pretend to be a sailor; but the steamer
is in my charge," replied Percy, elevating his head to the need of the
occasion.

"In charge of the steamer! I would not trust a coward like you in charge
of a sick monkey," added Lindley, with his contempt fully expressed in
his face.

"See here, Lindley, I don't mean to be insulted on board of this steamer
by my own brother. If you can't be decent, I have nothing more to say to
you!" cried Percy, his wrath breaking out quite violently.

"If you give me an impudent word, I will take you into the boat and put
you into the fort," added the major, as he stepped down upon the deck.

"No, you won't. I will jump overboard before I will be carried to the
fort. I have done just what my father told me to do, to say nothing of
my mother; and I won't be insulted by you. It is you who are the coward
and the poltroon, to do so," continued Percy, boiling over with rage.

Whatever provocation the major had had for his savage treatment of
his brother, the owner of the Bellevite thought his conduct was
unjustifiable. The young man was under age; and whether or not his
father was less a patriot than his older son, the latter was certainly
unkind, ungenerous, and even brutal. Without being a "milk-and-water
man," Captain Passford was full of kindness, courtesy, and justice. He
did not like the behavior of the major towards his brother.

It looked like a family quarrel of the two brothers on board of the
steamer; for Percy was evidently "a weak chicken," after all, though he
had become desperate under the stings and reproaches of the major. Under
present circumstances, it did not appear that Percy could be of any
service on board of the Bellevite, for his brother would not hear a word
he said. Captain Passford directed the commander to have every thing
ready for a hurried movement at once, for there was but little hope of
satisfying a man as unreasonable as the commander of the fort had proved
himself to be in his dealing with his brother.

The captain of the steamer went to Mr. Vapoor, who was standing near the
door of the engine-room, and said something to him, which soon produced
a lively effect among the coal-passers below.

"I will attend to your case in a few minutes, Percy, for I do not allow
any one to be impudent to me," growled the major.

"Nor I either. If you put a finger on me, I will put a bullet through
your head, if you are my brother!" yelled Percy, as he took a small
revolver from his hip-pocket.

This demonstration increased the anger of Lindley; and he ran up the
steps to the rail again, where he called upon two soldiers to come on
deck. At the same moment, Captain Breaker, as instructed by the owner,
rang the bell on the quarter, and the engine began to move again. Before
the men from the boat could leave it, the steamer was moving, and it was
no longer possible for them to obey the order.

"What are you about, sir?" demanded Major Pierson, rushing to the
commander, not a little excited by what had been done.

"I think this thing has gone about far enough, sir," replied Captain
Breaker, as calmly as though there had not been a ripple on the surface
of affairs.

"But I came on board of this steamer to make an examination of the
character of the vessel," protested the major, who evidently did not
like the present aspect of the situation.

"I have waited for you to do so; but I do not care to lose the tide
while you are quarrelling with your brother, sir," added the commander.

"But I order you to stop, sir!" continued the major.

"What am I to do, Mr. Percy?" asked Captain Breaker, addressing the
young man with a revolver in his hand.

There was something on the part of the commander which indicated that
he was playing a part, as were all on board, though he seemed to be
a little amused to find that he was taking his orders from a boy of
eighteen. At the same time he nodded his head slightly, though very
significantly, to the young agent.

"Go ahead just as fast as you can make the steamer travel, Captain
Breaker," said Percy, with as much energy as though he had been in
command of a Confederate fleet.

"Certainly, Mr. Percy; I shall obey your order, as you have charge of
the vessel," added the commander.

This passage between the authority of the steamer and his brother
absolutely confounded the major, and for a couple of minutes he was
unable to say any thing at all. But Captain Breaker, who was the only
pilot on board, was obliged to leave the ship's guest in order to look
out for the course of the steamer.

It seemed to be useless to attempt to get over the bar where he
had tried to do so; and he directed the vessel towards the main
ship-channel, finding plenty of water to enable him to reach it. But he
would have to run the gauntlet of Fort Morgan, and the chances of a shot
were against him.

"Do you mean to say that Percy is in charge of this steamer, Captain
Breaker?" demanded Major Pierson, who had by this time recovered some
portion of his self-possession.

"That is what both he and I said to you," replied Captain Breaker.

"And the vessel is to be in the service of the Confederate States,"
added Percy, with more pluck than he had displayed before. "If my
brother will not let her pass into the bay, I will go on shore at
Fort Morgan, and explain the situation to the officer in command,"
blustered Percy; and perhaps he would have done just as much under the
circumstances if he had known the vessel was on the other side in the
coming conflict.

"Where are your papers, sir?" asked the major.

"We have no papers; and that is why I am come in charge of the steamer,"
replied the agent, who seemed to be quite able to strain a point when
necessary.

"We met Colonel Richard Pierson in Nassau, and I believe he is your
father and Mr. Percy's," answered Captain Breaker.

"He is; but I can hardly understand how he happened to send my brother
home in charge of this fine steamer," said the major, glancing at his
brother.

"Going into the army is not all the duty a man has to do for his
country," said Percy warmly.

"May I ask where this vessel came from?" inquired the commander of the
fort.

"From New York before she went to Bermuda and Nassau; before that, from
England," replied the commander evasively.

"If you are really in charge of the steamer, Percy, I have nothing more
to say," continued Major Pierson. "Now may I ask who owns her?"

"Captain Horatio Passford, who stands there?"

The officer in command of the fort started back as though he had
received another surprise, greater than before.




CHAPTER XII

HOW THE BELLEVITE PASSED FORT MORGAN


Major Lindley Pierson was plainly very much disturbed when the owner
of the Bellevite was pointed out to him by the commander. He had
practically retreated from the position he had taken with his brother,
and had apparently given up the idea of sending him to the fort to be
made a soldier.

From the point which the steamer had reached, just north of Little
Pelican Island, Captain Breaker had directed Mr. Dashington to head the
vessel to the eastward, through Sand Island Channel; and she was now
moving towards the main ship-channel, which passed under the very guns
of Fort Morgan.

The tug had picked up the boat from the fort on the other side of the
bay, and was following the Bellevite, though she had fallen a long way
behind her in a very short time. It was about two miles to the more
formidable fort, and the steamer was going at full speed, so that it
could not be long before a shot would interrupt the harmony of her
movements.

In the mean time the commander of Fort Gaines was really a prisoner on
board of the Bellevite, for Captain Breaker had started her screw before
he could get any of his force on board. But the major was not half so
much disturbed by this fact as he was by the consciousness that he had
behaved in a very rude, brutal, and tyrannical manner in the presence of
Colonel Passford's brother, who had thus far spoken not a word to him.

"Captain Breaker, may I ask you to present me to the owner of the
steamer?" said Major Pierson, after he had looked about him for a time,
and perhaps considered how he should atone for his rudeness.

"Certainly, if you desire it," replied the commander, who was as polite
as though he had been brought up in Paris, though he was hardly an
exception to all naval officers.

"Will you excuse me if I say that you are running at great speed, sir,
and a shot from Fort Morgan cannot be much longer postponed," added the
major, as he glanced at the fort on the right.

"I did not willingly start the steamer, sir; but it was my duty to
protect the agent in whose charge the steamer comes into port. If you
say that he shall suffer no further annoyance, either on your own part
or that of your people, I will stop the screw and wait your pleasure,"
said the commander.

"I have had some difficulty with my brother, and it looked incredible
to me that he had come into Mobile Bay in charge of this fine vessel.
I apologize to you and the owner for my rudeness, and assure you that I
will not trouble Percy again while he remains on board," continued Major
Pierson, with no little embarrassment in his manner.

"I accept the apology, and your explanation is entirely sufficient. What
happens to Mr. Percy after he leaves the steamer does not concern me,"
answered Captain Breaker with a polite bow, as he went to the quarter
and rang the bell to stop her.

When he had done this, he conducted Major Pierson to the quarter-deck,
where Captain Passford and Christy were seated, and formally presented
him to both of them.

"I am most happy to make your acquaintance, Captain Passford," said the
commander of Fort Gaines, as he extended his hand to the owner, which
was taken, though the expression of the gentleman from the North did not
indicate that he was very well pleased with him.

To Christy he was as polite as to his father, and to both he was almost
obsequious. It was rather difficult for father or son to realize that
this was the man who had threatened to send his own brother to the fort
as a soldier, to say nothing of the abusive language he had used.

"I am very glad to see you in the State of Alabama, Captain Passford,
and especially at this time," the major began; and it looked as though
the cordiality of his welcome was to compensate for former rudeness.

"I am not a total stranger here," added the owner rather coldly.

"It affords me a degree of pleasure I cannot express to see you come
here, as events are getting big all around us, and with such a fine
steamer. I am sure the Government will regard you as one of its greatest
and truest benefactors," continued Major Pierson.

"It is my intention to serve the good cause with whatever measure of
ability I may possess; but I do not care to say any thing at all about
my purpose till I have talked with my brother. I hope I shall find my
brother Homer in full sympathy with me in my views," added the owner,
though it was not a pleasure to him even to deceive an enemy.

"Colonel Passford!" exclaimed the major. "Have you any doubt about him?"

"Hardly any, though I prefer to talk with him before I say much on my
own account."

"Colonel Passford is not a very demonstrative man, but no one in the
vicinity of Glenfield has any doubt as to how he stands on the great
question."

"I think no one will have any doubt as to how I stand, as soon as I take
my position."

"Certainly, sir, you will give no doubtful sound."

"I hope not."

"I came on board to examine this steamer before we permitted her to
pass the forts," continued Major Pierson. "I find her in charge of
my brother, in the absence of any letter from my father or other
Confederate agent. I humbly apologize for the rudeness of which I was
guilty, though I assure you I have had abundant provocation for it."

"That is a family affair with which we have nothing to do beyond the
proper protection of the young agent in charge of the steamer."

"I wish to say that I am entirely satisfied, Captain Passford, and I am
heartily delighted to learn that you are about to make your residence in
this section of the country," said the major, who seemed to have assured
himself on this point without much assistance from those most deeply
concerned.

The owner looked at him, and tried to ascertain what was passing in
his mind; and it was not a very difficult enterprise to accomplish his
purpose. The hint he had received about the frequent visits of Major
Pierson at Glenfield seemed to explain the present operations of his
mind. Florry Passford was a beautiful young lady of eighteen, and any
young man of twenty-six could easily have been excused for making his
visits very often at the mansion in which she resided.

Though the fond father was not disposed to interfere unnecessarily with
the choice of his daughter, even the hint that she might be entangled
more than a thousand miles from her home had given him a positive shock.
Now that he had seen the young man, and observed his conduct on board of
the Bellevite, he most earnestly hoped that she was not in any degree
committed to him. He had an additional inducement to get her away from
the home of his brother, and the thought of it nerved him to increased
exertion. What he had seen of the commander of Fort Gaines, though he
appeared to be a faithful, patriotic, and energetic young man, as he
understood his duty to his country, assuredly he was not the person he
would have chosen for Florry. But his brother could tell him more about
it, and how far the matter had gone, when he saw him.

By the time Captain Passford had settled his conclusions as far as he
could, the tug came up to the steamer, towing the boat from the fort,
Percy felt that he had won a victory over his brother, and a Bantam
rooster could not have made a wider spread on the deck. He seemed to
feel that he was in command of the steamer, though he did not venture
to interfere with any thing on board.

"I am very sorry to have given you any annoyance, Captain Passford,"
said the major, as the tug came up to the gangway. "I think we should
have understood each other better if your steamer had not got aground."

"We have suffered little or no inconvenience, sir."

"Whether you have or not, you shall suffer no more. The tug has come
alongside, and I will see that you are not delayed a moment after I
can get to Fort Morgan, which will certainly fire upon you if I do not
interfere; and I will go to it in the tug," continued the major, who was
still struggling to make all the atonement in his power for his former
conduct.

"You are very kind, Major Pierson, and I am under obligations to you.
I have not seen my daughter for nearly six months, or my brother; and
the sooner I meet them, the better I shall like it," replied the owner.

"I have had the pleasure of meeting your daughter several times, as
your brother's plantation is next to my father's. It is possible that,
if the exigencies of the coming war permit, I may desire to address a
communication to you at no distant day," said Major Pierson, with
considerable embarrassment in his manner.

Captain Passford made no reply to this remark; for he thought it was
entirely out of place under present circumstances, and hoped matters had
not gone far enough even to think of future formalities. The major shook
hands with the owner and his son, and then with the commander, and went
over the side. As he did so, he requested Captain Breaker not to advance
till he reached the fort, or at least not to attempt to pass it.

The tug-boat went off on its course, but it was nearly half an hour
before it got near enough to the fort to allow the Bellevite to start
her screw. As there was nowhere less than three fathoms of water, and
Captain Breaker knew every inch of bottom, he directed Mr. Vapoor to
hurry the engine, so that no one should have time to change his mind.
The steamer shot by the fort as though she did not like the looks of it,
and in another half an hour she was out of the reach of its guns.

The commander had piloted the steamer to her present destination before;
and there was plenty of water till she nearly reached the wharf, where
the planter could load small vessels with cotton. It was not within the
city of Mobile, though it was not far from it; and it was a sort of
low-ground paradise, which money and taste had made very beautiful.

"What am I to do now, Mr. Pierson?" asked Percy, when the steamer had
come to her moorings alongside the wharf.

"That will be for you to decide, Mr. Percy: but you had better take that
uniform off before you live any longer, for I am afraid some one will
mistake your character if you wear it on shore," replied Christy.

"I don't know that I shall go on shore," replied the agent doubtfully.
"I got by my brother very nicely, thanks to Captain Breaker; for I
should have been sent to the fort if he had not started the screw."

"Do you think you are in any danger here?" asked Christy.

"I know I am. My father's house is over in that direction about half
a mile. My brother can leave the fort any time he likes; and he will
either do so, or send some of his men up here in the fast tug to catch
me."

"Why don't you go into the army, if your brother is so anxious about it,
Percy?"

"That is just what I want to do, but my father positively forbid my
doing so," replied the volunteer agent. "I should like to get back to
Nassau; for I know I shall be forced into the army, in spite of my
father, if I stay here."

"My boy," called his father, "I am going on shore now, and I should like
to have you go with me to see your uncle."

Christy was glad to do so; and he departed with the owner, leaving Percy
in charge of the commander.




CHAPTER XIII

A DECIDED DIFFERENCE OF OPINION


If Homer Passford was not a rich man in the sense that his brother was,
he was still a wealthy man, and lived in a style as elegant as that of
any nabob in the South. More than this, and of vastly more consequence,
he was a good and true man. He was a member of his church, and his
brother believed that he was a genuine and true religious man. The same
principles of justice, humanity, and fairness had been born into both of
the brothers, and inherited from the same father.

This was the brother whom he from the North was about to visit on the
most solemn and momentous questions which could unite or separate the
only two sons of the same father. Though Horatio had reasoned himself
into the belief that Homer was as strongly a Union man as he was
himself, he had argued without any adequate premises; and now, when he
was almost on the threshold of his door, he did not feel sure of the
position of his brother, though his hope was very strong.

It was with no little trepidation on this account that he rang the bell
at the front door of Glenfield. A few minutes or an hour or two would
settle the momentous question, and decide whether or not all the family,
as well as Florry, would take passage in the Bellevite for a more
Northern clime.

"De Lo'd!" exclaimed the venerable colored man that came to the door.
"De hull family done be wery glad to see you, Massa 'Ratio."

"I hope you are very well, Pedro," replied Captain Passford, as he gave
his hand to the old servant. "Here is Christy."

"De Lo'd bless Massa Christy!" And he shook hands with the son as he had
with the father.

"Is your master at home, Pedro?" asked the visitor, in haste to see his
brother.

"Yes, sar; all de folks to home; jes' gwine to lunch. I spects dey all
wery glad to see Massa 'Ratio and Massa Christy. Walk in, sar; took a
seat in de parlor; and I done reckon we call Massa Homer and de rest ob
de folks afore you gits to sleep in yer char, thar," said Pedro, as he
scurried out of the room where he had shown the visitors.

It was Florry who caught the first sound of the visitors who had
arrived, and she rushed into the drawing-room before the others could be
called from up-stairs. She bounded into the room like a fawn, with her
eyes swimming with tears, and threw herself into her father's arms. She
could not speak a word, and the captain was as dumb as she was.

For a moment she remained folded in his arms, and then she gently
disengaged herself, to render the same wealth of affection in its
manifestation to her brother, who was standing by her father when she
darted into the room. But Christy was a boy, and not as demonstrative as
his father, though he discharged the duties of the affecting occasion
with becoming fidelity, so that the loving girl was sure that his heart
was where it had always been.

"Why, papa, I had no idea of seeing you to-day!" exclaimed Florry, when
she had wiped away her abundant tears. "I did not know that I should
ever see you again, for they say that all the roads to the North have
been closed to travel."

"We did not come by land, either by railroad or otherwise; and the
Bellevite lies at the wharf near this house," the captain explained.

"I was terribly afraid I should never see you again, and that I should
have to stay here till this war is ended, papa; but they say it will
soon be over," said the fair girl.

"I am afraid it will not be over for a long time, for each side is
firmly united in its own cause. But I could not leave you here. Do you
want to go back to Bonnydale, Florry?"

"Do I want to go back? What a funny question, papa!" exclaimed she.

"Why is it a funny question?" asked the anxious father, recalling the
rather presumptuous suggestion the gallant major from Fort Gaines had
made.

"Don't you think I want to see mamma? You have not told me a word about
her; and it is a long time now since I have heard any thing. I do want
to go home, and especially I want to see mamma."

"Then you shall see her."

"Is she here, papa?" exclaimed Florry, leaping out of the chair in which
she had seated herself.

"She is not here, my child. She is at home, but it will not take many
days to bear you to her," replied the devoted father, embracing her
again, while she kissed him over and over again.

"Can I see her before the war is over, papa?" she asked.

"Certainly you can, if no accident interferes with my plans. You really
want to go home?"

"To be sure I do. How cruel it is of you to ask me such a question!"

"Then I won't ask it again. But perhaps you will not be able to come to
Glenfield again for years," added Captain Passford, looking earnestly
into her face.

"What makes you look at me so, papa? What have I done? You look just as
you did when I was little and pulled the kitten's tail."

"It is a long time since I have seen you, Florry and I want to look at
you all I can."

  [Illustration: "She was Clasped in her Father's Arms" (Page 148)]

"Then you may look at me as much as you wish; and I shall be thankful it
is not that Major Pierson who comes here, for he has stared me out of
countenance every time he came," replied she, blushing a little.

"Then you don't like him, do you?" asked her father, with more interest
than he cared to display.

"I like him well enough, but I wish he would not stare at me all the
time. He seems to think I am good for nothing but to look at," replied
Florry smartly.

But the entrance of Mr. and Mrs. Passford turned aside the inquiries
the captain was making before he had satisfied himself, though he had
obtained enough to afford him some hope. The greeting extended to the
brother and nephew was all that could be expected or desired; and if
the country had not been riven into two bitterly hostile sections, the
interview could not have been more brotherly and affectionate. A full
hour was used in talking about the trip of the Bellevite, so anxious
were the family, including Florry, to hear the particulars of the
voyage.

"But how in the world did you get here, Horatio, when every public
conveyance that leads into the South has been discontinued?" asked
Homer.

"I came as I came before," replied Horatio.

"You came in the Bellevite!" exclaimed Homer.

"I did."

"But how did you get by the forts? Both of them have been garrisoned,
and they have been ordered to allow no vessel to pass unless she give
a good account of herself," continued the planter.

"In other words, it is war now," added Horatio.

"Undoubtedly it is war; and, in my judgment, it will be a terrible
conflict before it is finished."

"I fully agree with you, Homer."

"But you did not tell me in what manner you passed the two forts, which
are already strong enough to blow your steamer into a thousand pieces,"
suggested Homer.

"I did not tell you, and I think we had better understand each other a
little better before I say any thing at all about the passage of the
forts; though I can assure you that not a single shot was fired at the
Bellevite," said Horatio, somewhat embarrassed by the situation.

"De lunch am ready, saw," said a darky at the door at this moment; and
perhaps the summons saved the owner of the Bellevite from some further
annoyance.

An hour was spent at the table, for there was enough to talk about
without meddling with delicate subjects. When the repast was over,
Florry invited her brother to look at the flower-garden, which was
in the height of its glory, and she was followed by Gerty her cousin,
and by Mrs. Passford. As in the Northern family, there were only two
children; but Cornelius, or Corny as he was generally called, was not
at home, though nothing at all was said about him.

Horatio was invited into the library by his brother, and they seated
themselves for a long talk. The owner of the Bellevite was confident
that he should soon know on which side the planter belonged, though he
was still confident in his former views.

"I suppose there is no other way for you to get here at the present
time except in your yacht, and not many men can command so elegant
and substantial a vessel as the Bellevite," said Homer, when they were
seated. "But what in the world do you expect to do with her down here?"

"I intend to return to my home in her, and to take my daughter back to
her mother," replied Horatio, as unmoved as though he had uttered a
commonplace expression.

"Take Florry back to her mother!" exclaimed Homer, springing out of his
armchair as though his five-and-forty years counted for nothing. "I hope
that nothing at all is the matter with your brain, Horatio."

"Nothing at all, so far as I am aware, Homer. You seem to think it is a
great undertaking to take my daughter home," added Horatio.

"But it is war in this country, and all along the coast. You will
certainly be captured, and your daughter sent to a prison, at least till
she can be sent home. You have not more than one chance in ten to get to
New York."

"Do you think so?" asked Horatio, smiling.

"If you don't know it, I do, my dear brother, that the Southern
Confederacy has sent out agents to buy up all the suitable vessels they
can find, to do duty as cruisers and privateers. You are almost sure to
be captured, and think what Florry would suffer in such an event."

"You seem to think that the North is going to hold still, and let you do
all this, Homer," added the owner of the Bellevite.

"I don't see how the North can help itself."

"My information is rather meagre; but I am informed that the Government
of the United States has proclaimed the blockade, and even that it is
enforced farther north, as I am sure it will be on the south."

"That is all nonsense, Horatio, and you know it."

"I don't understand it so."

"How is it possible for the Yankee Government to station ships-of-war on
the coast of the Southern States? It is simply impossible," said Homer,
warming up with the argument. "The business of fitting out vessels is
already begun, I read in the newspapers; and it will be pushed to the
utmost."

"I am confident that every Confederate port in the United States will be
invested by one or more vessels within a reasonable time."

"But your steamer will be captured before you can get home, even if you
get out of Mobile Bay."

"I don't apprehend any difficulty on that account. If the Bellevite
can't keep out of the way of any thing that floats, she deserves to be
captured. She will belong to the Government within a few weeks," added
Horatio quietly.

"The Bellevite!" exclaimed Homer.

"The Bellevite, certainly. I should be ashamed to retain her a month
after I knew that the Union needs her, and the Union shall have her as a
free gift," added Horatio, quite as warmly as his brother had spoken.

"You will give your steamer to the Yankee Government!" gasped Homer,
rising from his chair again, and darting across the room, as though he
was both shocked and disgusted at the conduct of Horatio. "You will
allow her to be used in subduing a free people? I am sorry."

Homer was very deeply grieved, and Horatio hardly less so.




CHAPTER XIV

THE BLUE AND THE GRAY


To Captain Passford the question seemed to be settled; and he could no
longer doubt that his brother fully sympathized with the leaders of the
rebellion, if he was not one of them himself. He was certainly the most
enthusiastic person he had yet seen on that side of the question. But
Homer was thoroughly sincere, for he never was any thing else on any
subject.

Horatio was unable to understand how his brother could reason himself
into the belief that secession was right, when the duty of saving the
Union was to him paramount; and certainly Homer was equally puzzled over
the political faith of Horatio. Until the darkness of evening began to
gather, they argued the tremendous question; and they discussed it ably,
for both of them were thinking and reasoning men.

But, when the darkness gathered, they were not one hair's-breadth nearer
an agreement; and probably if they had continued to argue till morning,
or even till the end of the year, they would have come no nearer
together. Each had a sort of horror of the views of the other, though
they had lived in peace and harmony all the days of their lives.

"Homer, you are my brother; and I am sure that an unpleasant word never
passed between us," said Horatio, when the sun had gone down on the
fruitless discussion.

"Certainly not, brother; and it grieves me sorely to find that you are
upon one side, while I am on the other," replied Homer with a strong
manifestation of feeling. "I did not expect to see you at Glenfield; but
I felt sure that you would not be found, actually or constructively, in
the ranks of the enemies of the South."

"And I was equally sure that you would be found on the side of your
country,--the whole country, and not a miserable fraction of it," added
Horatio, with quite as much warmth as his brother. "I came here in the
Bellevite as much to convey you to a place of safety, as to restore
Florry to her mother."

"My country is here in the South. I have no other country; and I shall
stand by it to the last ditch, wherein I am ready to cast all that I
have and all that I am. If you thought it possible for me to desert the
cause of the South, you strangely misjudged me; and I do not feel at all
complimented by the formation of your opinion of me," said Homer, with a
trifle more of bitterness in his tone and manner than he had used
before.

"I see how it is with you, Homer; and I realize that it is worse than
folly for us to discuss this important question. Your mind is made up,
and so is mine; and I fear that we might quarrel if we should continue
to bandy words on the subject. We had better drop it entirely, once for
all."

"Perhaps we had; but it grieves me sorely, even to think of my only
brother taking part with the hirelings of the North in an attempt to
subdue the free, untamed, and untamable South. It would not hurt my
feelings more to know that you were a buccaneer, roving on the ocean
for the plunder of all nations."

"You should also consider my feelings when I think of you in armed
rebellion against the best government God ever allowed to exist; that my
own brother is a rebel and a traitor, who is liable to be shot or hung
for his armed treason."

This was too much for Homer, and he gave vent to his emotion in a
laugh at the picture his brother had drawn. He walked the library, and
chuckled as though he were actually amused at the remarks of the other;
and perhaps he was.

"I am really and heartily sorry for you, Horatio. Your future, I fear,
will be terribly dark. Of course, all business will cease at the North:
the grass will grow in the streets of New York and other large cities.
You have an immense fortune, which I do not believe you can retain a
single year; for the war is not to be confined to Southern soil, but
will be carried into the North, where the expenses of our men will be
paid by the enemy."

"I think we had better confine our attention to the present, and let the
future take care of itself," said Horatio, with a smile at the prophetic
croakings of his brother.

"Be that as it may, though I feel confident that all I predict will come
to pass, I desire to have one thing understood: when you have lost your
fortune, or wasted it on the hireling armies of the North, or on ships
for its navy, you may always be sure of a home at Glenfield for yourself
and all your family."

"If you do not lose or waste all that you have on the army of the
other side," added Horatio with a smile. "But I am ready to drop this
subject."

"It seems to be useless to continue it; though, if there were any
possible way to convert you from the error of your way of thinking,
I would struggle all night with you," said Homer.

"You cannot make a traitor of me, brother. But I must tell Florry to
pack her trunk at once."

"Pack her trunk? Why are you in such a hurry?" demanded Homer.

"Because this is not a safe place for me and mine; and I have my two
children with me."

"You ought to have left Christy at home."

"I think not. Though he is only sixteen, he has seen so much of the
world, and is so bright, that he is almost a man. He will go into the
navy within a few weeks, and I shall expect him to give a good account
of himself."

"He is rather young. Corny is eighteen, and he has already enlisted with
his mother's blessing and mine. But I think you need not be in such a
hurry, Horatio, to get away from here; for it is a long time since we
met."

"I have expressed my political sentiments very freely to you, Homer, and
you know as well as I do, that, if they were known, I should not be safe
a single day."

"Not quite so bad as that, for I think I should have sufficient
influence to save you from arrest," added Homer.

"The Bellevite cost me over half a million dollars, and she is worth all
she cost. If I were safe a single day, the steamer and ship's company on
board of her would not be. I brought them down here, and I intend to
take them back."

"And then you present this fine vessel to the Yankee Government, and
doubtless the men on board of her will go into the service of the navy."

"I certainly expect as much as that of them."

"Then I question whether I ought to allow such a prize to pass out of
the bay for such a purpose," said Homer.

"Then, with such a doubt as that in your mind, I ought not to remain
here another hour," added Horatio quietly. "If you have gone far enough
in treason to betray your own brother, coming here to your home for no
warlike purpose, into the hands of the enemy, why, all I can do is to
look out for myself."

"I did not say that I should betray you, Horatio. It is simply a
question with me whether my duty to my country will allow me to let your
steamer leave these waters. I have not settled the question in my own
mind."

"I hope you will settle it soon. If I am to take my first step in this
fratricidal war by defending myself against my own brother, let him
speak, and I am ready," replied Horatio, shaken by an emotion deeper
than he had ever experienced before.

"Horatio, whatever you may do, whatever I may do, each in the discharge
of his duty to his country, his country as he understands it, let us
have no unfraternal feeling," continued Homer, almost as much disturbed
in his feelings as his brother.

"In other words, if you hand me and my vessel over to your leaders, and
consequently take from me the means of bearing my daughter to a place of
safety, I am to put my hand on my heart, and say that my brother has
done right, for I will not use any stronger terms," said Horatio,
struggling with his emotion.

"I must do my duty as I understand it," protested Homer. "The question I
put to myself is this: can I justify myself, before God and my country,
if I permit the finest steamer in the world, as you state it, to be
transferred to the Yankee navy, to be used in killing, ravaging, and
destroying within the free South? The steamer is here, and within my
reach. After all you have said, she would be the lawful prize of any
tug-boat in the bay that could capture her. I begin to realize that I
should be guilty of treason to my country in letting her go."

"You must be your own judge in regard to that," replied Horatio
bitterly, as he rose from his chair and walked towards the door.

"One word more, Horatio. I look upon the Bellevite as already belonging
to the Southern Confederacy. Of course, being a private yacht, she is
not armed?"

Homer paused and looked at his brother as though he expected an answer
to this question; but the owner of the steamer made no reply.

"Do you say that the Bellevite is armed, Horatio?" repeated Homer.

"I do not say any thing about it. I find that I am in the presence of an
enemy, though he is my own brother."

"Do not assume that tone to me, Horatio: it wounds me to the heart,"
said Homer, in a deprecatory tone. "If we are enemies because you choose
to oppress our people, I cannot help it; but we will still be brothers."

"The attack upon Fort Sumter was made by the South; and thus far, at
least to the extent that I have been informed, the South has been the
assailant; and you say that I choose to oppress your people. They have
taken the sword, and they will perish by the sword."

Captain Passford could not trust his feelings any longer to remain with
his brother, and he left the room. In the hall he met Florry, who had
been lying in wait for him for over an hour. She threw herself on his
neck as she had done before; but she found her father full of energy,
and he was not even willing to use his minutes to caress her.

"What is the matter, papa?" asked the fair girl, astonished at the
manner of her father, for she had never before seen him so agitated.

"Do not ask me any questions, Florry, for I have not time to answer them
now," said he hastily. "Go to your room and pack all your things as
quick as you possibly can, and without saying a word to any one."

"Why, papa!"

"Not a word, my dear child," he added, kissing her.

"It will not take me five minutes, papa; for I have been packing my
trunk this afternoon, when I had nothing else to do."

"Where is your room, Florry?"

"It is on the lower floor, next to the library."

"I will be there in a few minutes. Dress yourself, and be ready to leave
at a minute's notice," continued Captain Passford. "Where is Christy?"

"He went out about an hour ago, when he saw from the window a young man
I did not know," replied Florry, as she passed into her room.

Captain Passford wondered who the young man was whom his son had gone
out to meet; for no one was allowed to leave the deck of the Bellevite
who belonged to her, and he was not aware that Christy had any friend in
the vicinity. He was annoyed at his absence, for he wanted him at that
very moment.

Mrs. Passford and Gerty were up-stairs, where nimble fingers were busily
at work for the soldiers of the Southern Confederacy, as they were also
in the North for the Union. The captain looked all about the house, but
he could not see or hear of his son.




CHAPTER XV

BROTHER AT WAR WITH BROTHER


Captain Passford was very much annoyed at the absence of Christy at
that particular moment, for it seemed to be heavily laden with momentous
events to him and his family; though Christy could not possibly know
what had transpired in the library between the two brothers. He waited
very uneasily in the hall, after his return from his search.

Homer Passford did not come out of his library, and he sat brooding over
the remarkable interview which had taken place between the brothers. No
doubt he would have been glad to believe that he had been wrong; for he
had nothing but the kindest feelings in the world towards his brother,
and had never had in all his life. He was five years older than Horatio;
and, in their earlier life, he had been to some extent his guardian and
protector, and he had never lost the feeling of boyhood.

But he had proved himself to be a patriot of the severest type, and
proposed to rob his brother of his steamer, his only means of conveying
his daughter to his home, for the benefit of the fraction of the nation
which he called his country, and more to prevent her from being
transferred to the navy of the Union.

While the captain was waiting in the hall, the library door opened,
and Homer presented himself. He invited his brother to return to the
apartment, for he had something to say to him; but Horatio positively
declined to do so, fearful that they might come to an open rupture if
the exciting discussion was continued.

"But you will hear me a moment or two, will you not, Horatio?" asked
Homer; and his lips quivered under the influence of his active thought.

"I will as long as that," replied Horatio.

"I have been thinking of the subject of our conversation in relation to
the Bellevite; and I have something to propose to you, which I hope will
satisfy you, and at the same time will not rob our Government of what
now belongs to it."

"I am listening," added Horatio, as Homer paused to note the effect of
his proposal.

"You did not tell me how you got by the forts in your steamer, and
perhaps you are ready to do so now."

"I am not ready now; and I am not likely to be ready at any future time
to do so, Homer. You have indicated that we are enemies, and each should
keep his own counsels."

"Of course you will do as you think proper. I cannot reconcile myself to
the idea of permitting a fine steamer like the Bellevite, now virtually
in possession of the Confederacy, to sail away out of the bay. I feel
that I should be guilty of treason to my country to do so."

"And you propose to steal her from your own brother, if you can. You
have done a large business in stealing forts, and one ought not to be
surprised when you propose to steal a ship," replied Horatio mildly but
sternly.

"I pass over the injustice and unkindness on your part of that remark,
and I hope you will accept my offer."

"Let me hear it as soon as possible."

"In spite of your present, unfortunate position, Horatio, I believe you
are still a man of truth, honor, and integrity."

"Thank you, Homer."

"I do not wish to keep Florry here when her mother desires so much to
see her, and I have hit upon a plan by which you can do this without
making me a traitor to my country."

"It must have been a happy thought," added Horatio, somewhat interested
in what the other was saying.

"I think it was a happy thought, and I sincerely hope you will be able
to accept the plan. I have some little influence in this section, and I
have no doubt I can procure a pass for your steamer to go to sea,"
continued Homer, pausing to study the expression of his brother.

"Do I understand that you propose to do this, Homer?" asked Captain
Passford, not a little astonished at the apparent change his brother had
made in his position.

"On a certain condition, which you can easily meet."

"It looks as though you were becoming more reasonable. What is the
condition on which you will do this? For I should certainly prefer to
have no shots fired at the Bellevite while Florry is on board of her."

"As I have said, your word is as good as your bond; and I am willing
to accept the consequences of the step I propose to take, since the
Confederacy will not suffer any loss or detriment on account of it."

"It will not!" exclaimed the captain, beginning to see that he could not
accept the conditions.

"It will not. I could not injure or cheat my country, even to serve my
only brother, greatly as I desire to do all I can for him."

"But what is the condition, Homer?" asked Captain Passford, who had by
this time lost all hope of the plan.

"You shall take Florry to some point,--Bermuda, for instance,--from
which she can obtain passage to New York. Before you go, you shall
give me your simple word that you will return to Mobile Bay with the
Bellevite, and surrender her to the Confederate authorities. I am
entirely willing to accept your promise to do this, without any bond
or other writing."

"Is that all?" asked Horatio, hardly able to contain himself.

"That is all; what more do you desire?"

"Nothing; that is enough. I have already tendered my steamer to the
Government of the United States; do you think me capable of surrendering
my vessel to rebels and traitors, under any possible circumstances?
I would blow her up with all on board of her, before I would do such
a thing. You insult me by proposing such treachery to me. Not another
word about it, if you please!"

Homer returned to his library, and closed the door after him; for the
last remark of the owner of the Bellevite had excited him, and he could
not trust himself to remain any longer in the presence of his Union
brother.

"I am all ready, papa," said Florry, who had opened the door once
before, and found that her father was engaged.

"I cannot find Christy, but I hope he is not far off," added Captain
Passford, as he went into the room, and, to the astonishment of his
daughter, bolted the door after him.

"I did not know the young man he went out to see, but I noticed that he
looked something like Major Pierson," said Florry.

"Then it was the major's brother, and he came from Nassau with us on
board of the steamer. I hope neither of them will get into any trouble,
for all this country is in a very excited condition," said the captain,
as he carefully opened the window at the side of the apartment.

This was quite as singular a movement as bolting the door; and the fair
girl, who had heard some of the energetic conversation in the hall,
began to think that something strange was about to transpire in the
mansion. Her father spent some time in looking out the window; for it
was now quite dark, and he could not make out objects outdoors very
readily.

The window opened upon a lawn covered with orange, magnolia, and other
ornamental trees. The house was low on the ground, and it was not more
than three feet from the window-sill to the lawn. Without explaining any
thing, Captain Passford took his daughter's trunk, carried it to the
window, and then dropped it upon the lawn beneath.

"Now, Florry, I want you to get out at this window; and you can easily
step down upon the trunk," continued the owner of the Bellevite.

"Get out of the window, papa?" demanded the maiden, with a look of
intense astonishment at her father.

"Do just as I tell you, my child, and don't ask any questions now; for
all will be explained to your satisfaction," replied he, as he assisted
her to a chair, by which she mounted to the window-stool.

She dropped lightly down upon the trunk, which had been placed in a
convenient position for her, and then to the ground. Her father followed
her; though he stopped long enough to close the window after him, and
leave every thing as it had been before.

"I think I can understand something about it, papa," said Florry, as the
captain joined her. "But am I to leave this house, where I have been for
six months, without saying good-by to uncle or aunt?"

"Not a word to any one, my child. I am sorry it must be so; but this is
a time of war, and I have no time to stand on ceremonies," replied her
father, as he picked up the trunk, and tossed it on his shoulder as
though he had done that kind of work before.

He walked off with a firm step, in spite of his burden, taking the
nearest way to the wharf where he had left the Bellevite. The distance
was considerable, and the millionnaire was obliged to stop and rest two
or three times; and, though Florry insisted upon helping him, he would
not allow her to do so. It was nearly ten o'clock at night when the
wanderers reached their destination, and were hailed by the vigilant
watch on the deck.

"Florence!" called the owner of the steamer when he was challenged, and
gave the word that had been agreed upon.

"Pass, Florence," replied the sentinel.

All the officers were still upon board, and Florry received a very
respectful greeting from all of them. Her trunk was carried to her
stateroom; and she soon followed it, for the excitement of the afternoon
and evening was rather too much for her.

"Is Percy still on board, Breaker?" asked the owner.

"He is not: he lounged about the deck till nearly night, and then he
said he would go up and see his mother, to which I had not the least
objection," replied the commander.

"I have no objection to his going where he pleases now, but the worst of
it is that Christy appears to have gone with him. They must have been
gone three hours, and I begin to be worried about my son. But no matter
for that now: we are ready to sail, and it is necessary to get out into
the bay, at least without any loss of time, Breaker. The tide is right
now."

Captain Breaker had not expected to leave so soon, and thought it
probable that the vessel would remain where she was for several days or
a week. But he had caused the fires to be banked, so as to be ready for
any emergency, though he did not anticipate any; for he reasoned that
the powerful influence of the owner's brother would be enough to protect
the steamer from interference.

The commander called all hands, and the owner requested that the work
be done with as little noise as possible. In less than an hour the
Bellevite was floating in the deep waters of the bay. But the owner was
far from easy; though, in spite of all his brother had said, he felt
that the steamer was safe for the present: he was not a little alarmed
at the continued absence of Christy.

Captain Passford had formed a very decided opinion in regard to Major
Pierson, and he did not believe that Percy had seen the end of his
troubles in the matter of joining the army. It was not over a three
hours' run in a reasonably fast steamer from the forts to the city, and
at least ten hours had elapsed since the Bellevite came up. Possibly the
major might wonder whether or not the coming of Captain Passford would
disturb the residence of Miss Florence at the mansion of her uncle. It
was not improbable that he had, or might, come up to look out for his
interests.

If he came across his brother Percy after he left the steamer, he was
likely to make a soldier of him; and it was unfortunate that Christy had
been his companion when last seen.




CHAPTER XVI

CHRISTY FINDS HIMSELF A PRISONER


Christy Passford had not gone out of his uncle's house for any
particular purpose; though he saw Percy, and joined him as he left the
mansion. He had visited Glenfield before, and he had some curiosity to
see familiar objects again. It was nearly dark, and he wondered where
the major's brother was going at that hour.

"Where are you going now, Mr. Percy," he asked, as he approached the
agent.

"I thought I would go up to the house and see my mother," replied Percy.
"Won't you go over with me? It is only a short distance."

"No, I think not: I don't care to go a great way from the house."

"It isn't above half a mile, and I am coming directly back again."

"I will not go as far as you are going, but I will take a little stroll
as far as the gate. Where is your brother now?"

"I suppose he is at the fort. If I thought he were about here, I should
not leave the steamer. He has got it into his head that I must join the
army, and he will never be satisfied till I am there."

"He is certainly very much in earnest, judging by his conduct on board
of the Bellevite," added Christy.

"He pretends to believe that my not joining the army will be a disgrace
to the family; but, if my father don't think so, Lindley need not worry
his head about the matter."

"Your brother seems to have a very strong will of his own," suggested
Christy.

"He will send me into the army in spite of my father and mother; and,
for that reason, I don't mean to go where he can put his finger on me.
Of course, the Bellevite is going into the Confederate navy."

Percy looked his companion in the face, as though he had been thinking
of something which would benefit his own case.

"You will have to ask my uncle about that," replied Christy, not willing
to say any more than was necessary on this subject.

"There can be no doubt of it, and I would rather be in the navy than in
the army. I hope your uncle will be able to do something for me."

"I don't know whether he can or not. For aught I know, the steamer may
be sent to England, or to some other country," replied Christy, as they
approached the gate, which was to be the end in that direction of his
walk.

"At any rate, I mean to stay on board of the Bellevite; and I shall take
my chances of getting a position of some kind on board of her."

"What kind of a position do you desire?"

"I am willing to be one of the lieutenants, or something of that kind,"
replied Percy with becoming condescension.

"One of the lieutenants!" exclaimed Christy. "Of course you know all
about handling a ship or a steamer."

"I can't say I do. In fact, I never went on the sea till I went to
Nassau with my father," replied Percy candidly. "But I can soon learn
all about it."

"A nice lieutenant you will make! Why don't you apply for the position
of commander of her?"

"I am willing to take a subordinate position till I learn something
about the business."

"That's right! Be humble at first, and you will be great afterwards."

"I should have been willing to go into the army as a captain, or even
as a lieutenant; but I couldn't quite stand it to go in as a common
soldier, while my brother made a beginning as a major."

"I think I will not go any farther, Mr. Percy," said Christy, as he
halted near the gate.

"Oh, don't leave me now, Mr. Pierson! We are half way to my father's
house," Percy objected.

"I can't go any farther, for I may be wanted."

"You will be safe enough, Mr. Pierson, My mother is at home, and she
will be glad to see you."

"I think I will not see your mother to-night," added Christy, as he
turned, and began to retrace his steps towards the mansion of his uncle.

  [Illustration: Four Men Sprang in Front of Him (Page 183)]

They had halted in the road near the gate, and on both sides of it was
a thick undergrowth of small trees and bushes; and in the shade of this
foliage it had become quite dark. Christy had not taken three steps
before four men sprang out of the thicket in front of him, all of them
armed with muskets, and wearing a uniform of gray. Two placed themselves
in front of Christy; while the other two rushed after Percy, who took to
his heels as soon as he saw them.

The gate was an impediment to the latter; and before he could get over
or through it, the two soldiers had laid violent hands on him. He could
offer no effectual resistance, and it was evident that he was frightened
out of his wits; for he looked and acted like the ghost of despair
itself. The two men immediately tied his hands behind him; and, though
they did not use any undue harshness, they did their work thoroughly.

Christy was even more astonished than his companion at this sharp
discipline. He did not regard himself as a fit subject for such
treatment, and he could not understand why he had been subjected to it.
He was not liable to do military duty, and Major Pierson could hardly
think of pressing him into the service of the Confederacy. His two
captors were as prompt in their action as the two who had taken Percy,
and his hands were also tied behind him.

"Good-evening, gentlemen," said Christy, as soon as the soldiers had
bound him, and then stood in front to take a look at him. "Don't it
strike you that you are indulging in rather sharp practice?"

"We haven't any thing to do with the practice: all we have to do is to
obey orders," replied one of the men.

"But I think you have mistaken your orders," suggested the prisoner.

"I think not: if we have, we will set things to rights at once," replied
the man, who appeared to be the sergeant in command of the party. "But
our business is not so much with you as with the other young fellow."

Upon this, Christy was conducted to the gate, where Percy had not yet
recovered any of his self-possession. For his own part, he felt that a
mistake had been made, which must soon be corrected. He knew nothing
of the wide difference of opinion which had suddenly become apparent
between his father and his uncle, and he was sure that the latter could
soon effect his release.

"This is an outrage!" exclaimed Percy, who perhaps felt that it was
necessary for him to say something, now that Christy had come within
hearing distance.

"Perhaps it is, Mr. Pierson," replied the sergeant. "But that isn't any
of my business."

"You will be held responsible for it, sir!" protested Percy.

"Perhaps I shall; but I shall obey my orders," replied the soldier
doggedly.

"Who gave you your orders?" demanded Percy imperatively.

"Well, I don't belong to the class in catechism, and I don't answer all
the questions that are put to me."

"My father will have something to say about this business."

"He can say all he likes, but he need not say it to me; for I only obey
my orders, and I have nothing to do with giving them."

"What are you going to do with me?" asked Percy, when he found he could
make nothing of the sergeant.

"I don't know what they will do with you; but I reckon they won't
shoot you, as they might a fellow whose father was not a man of some
consequence," replied the sergeant, as he ordered one of his men to open
the gate.

"Shoot me!" exclaimed Percy, evidently appalled at the bare possibility
of such an event.

"I reckon they won't do that," added the soldier.

"This is my father's plantation, and my mother is in the house,"
continued Percy.

"She can stay there: we shall not meddle with her."

"But you are going to take me away from her."

"You look like a stout young fellow, and you ought to be able to get
along for a while without your mother," chuckled the sergeant. "You
belong in the army; and I reckon you will have to go back to it, in
spite of your mother."

"I don't belong to the army," protested Percy.

"Well, they call you a deserter, anyhow."

Percy seemed to be overcome by this statement, and Christy thought
there was something more of his story than he had told on board of the
Bellevite. It was possible, after all, that Major Pierson was not as
much of a brute as be had appeared to be. But, if his companion was a
deserter, he certainly did not come under that head himself, and he
could not understand why he had been arrested.

"I suppose you don't claim me as a deserter, do you?" asked Christy
good-naturedly.

"I don't think they do," replied the sergeant, as pleasantly as he had
spoken himself.

"Then, why do you arrest me?"

"My orders were to arrest any person with Mr. Pierson; and that is all
I know about your case, and I am very sorry to give you any annoyance.
Things are a little mixed, and I hope they will soon get them levelled
down. If you don't object, we will march."

"I suppose you will march all the same, if I do object," added Christy.
"I was not aware that it was a crime here to be in the company of that
young man."

"I reckon I was ordered to arrest you as a matter of precaution; and I
dare say they will let you return as soon as we report to the major,"
said the sergeant, leading his prisoner through the gateway.

The other men took Percy by the arm; and, after they had closed the
gate, they followed the road for a considerable distance, and then
struck across the fields. Not far ahead, Christy saw many lights; and
he concluded that this must be the location of the mansion of Colonel
Pierson, the father of Percy, and for some reason best known to himself,
the sergeant desired to avoid going very near it.

A march of a short distance farther across the field brought them to a
road, which they followed till they came to a wagon drawn by two horses.
The animals were hitched at the side of the road, and no one seemed to
be in charge of the team. But the sergeant halted his party at this
point; and, leaving the prisoners in charge of his men, he went to the
wagon.

"Major Pierson," said he; but no answer came to his question, and he
repeated it with no better success.

Then he mounted the seat in front of the wagon, and looked over into the
body of it. Then he reached over; and a moment later the form of a man
was seen to rise from a quantity of hay which filled the body.

"Is that you, Spottswood?" demanded the rising form.

"Yes, sir, I am here; and I have two prisoners. One of them is your
brother, and I don't know who the other is," replied the sergeant.

"Are you sure that one of them is my brother?" asked the major.

"I am as sure as I can be, for I heard the other fellow call him Percy
two or three times before I stepped in front of them."

"Don't you know who the other one is?"

"I haven't the least idea. I arrested him as you told me, but I did not
question him."

The major ordered him to put his prisoners into the wagon.




CHAPTER XVII

MAJOR PIERSON IS PUZZLED


Two of the soldiers were placed at the rear of the wagon, one took his
place on the hay with Percy, while the major and the sergeant seated
themselves on the cushion in front. Spottswood took the reins; and the
officer told him to drive on, without saying a word to the prisoners.

It was quite dark; and Christy had not the least idea where he was, or
where he was going. He could see that Major Pierson had sent this party
to arrest his brother, as Percy seemed to fear that he would do, and
had remained and slept away the time in the wagon himself. He had been
introduced to the major, and had been treated with "distinguished
consideration" by him. In view of the possible relations between him and
Florry, he did not feel much concerned about his own safety, though he
was sorry to have his father and sister worry over his absence.

"Then, it seems you have been in the army, after all," said he to his
fellow-prisoner, after they had gone some distance.

"I never belonged to the army," he replied decidedly.

"Did you put your name down?"

"Yes, I did; but I supposed I was to be a captain, or something of that
sort. When I found I must go as a common soldier, mixed up with all
sorts of people, I couldn't stand it. I applied for my discharge; but
they would not give it to me, and I went home without it."

"That looks very much like desertion," added Christy, and the major went
up somewhat in his estimation.

"But it was not desertion; for I applied for my discharge, and all they
had to do was to give it to me. They understood it so, for they did not
come to the house after me," argued Percy. "Then, when my father went
to Nassau, he took me with him. But the surgeon said I was not fit for
the army, for I had indications of varicose veins. My father sent the
certificate to the authorities, and applied for my discharge."

"Was it ever granted?"

"I suppose it was, but I don't know."

"If it had been, your brother would know about it."

"Will your uncle make you join the army, Mr. Pierson?"

"No: my uncle has no authority over me, and he cannot make me join the
army," replied Christy.

"Where is your father?"

"He was at my uncle's plantation. I think we have kept up this farce
long enough, Percy," said Christy, laughing. "My father is the owner of
the Bellevite."

"What did you tell me your name was Percy Pierson for?" demanded the
other prisoner.

"For the same reason that I told you the steamer belonged to the Chinese
government, and a dozen other things of the same sort."

"What is your name, then?"

"Christopher Passford; but I am commonly called Christy."

"Then, you have been fooling me?"

"You knew very well that I had been fooling you."

"Then, you are the son of the owner of the Bellevite."

"I am."

"Then, you can get me a place on board of her."

"Perhaps I can. We will see about that."

Christy doubted if their political opinions would permit them to serve
on the deck of the same vessel, but he did not suggest any thing of this
kind. He had been introduced to Major Pierson under his real name, and
he was certain to be identified by him as soon as the light permitted
him to see his face; and he had made the best of it by telling Percy the
truth before he found it out himself.

"You haven't told me who the other prisoner is, Spottswood," said the
major, when they had ridden some distance in silence.

"I don't know who he is," replied the sergeant. "I never saw him before
in my life, so far as I know."

"Didn't he tell you who he was?"

"He did not, and I did not ask him any questions."

That was all that was said about it; and the major relapsed into
silence, and Christy concluded that he had gone to sleep again. The
wagon continued on the journey, though at a very slow pace, for the road
could hardly have been any worse. At the end of about two hours more,
the vehicle halted near a sheet of water which looked as though it might
be a river, or an arm of Mobile Bay.

The road appeared to end at a rude sort of wharf; but there was no
person in the vicinity, no house, and no craft of any kind in the water,
so far as Christy could see when he was helped out of the wagon. Percy
was assisted to the ground also; and the two soldiers at the rear of the
wagon, who had gone to sleep, were waked, and ordered to get out.

"We shall not want the wagon any more," said the major. "You can send
Boyce back to the house with it."

"It is five miles from here, and he will not get back till nearly
morning."

"We can wait for him. The Leopard will not be here for some time."

"I think we ought to send two men, major," suggested the sergeant.

"Why two?"

"For company: one of them may get asleep, and two will get back sooner
than one."

"They might as well all of them go, for they can do nothing here," added
the major with a terrific yawn.

Two men were sent away with the wagon. The most of the hay in it was
taken out; and with it the superior officer made a bed for himself, and
was soon asleep again. The sergeant and the remaining soldier took their
knapsacks from a tree where they had put them before, and it was decided
that one of them might sleep while the other kept guard over the
prisoners. Spottswood was the first to take his turn, and his companion
stretched himself on the planks of the wharf.

The sergeant brought out the knapsacks of the two absent soldiers, and
gave the blankets to Christy and Percy, both of whom were sleepy enough
to follow the example of the others. Spottswood assisted them very
kindly, spreading out the blankets for them, and covering them
afterwards; for, as their hands were tied behind them, they were almost
helpless.

The two prisoners soon dropped asleep; and they knew nothing more till
after daylight, when Christy was waked by the hissing of steam at the
rude wharf. The two soldiers who had been sent away with the wagon were
asleep on the planks, though neither had a blanket. The major had not
been disturbed by the noise, for he was farther from it than the others.

With some difficulty Christy got upon his feet, and looked about him.
A tug-boat lay at the wharf, with the steam escaping from her pipe.
There was nothing else to be seen in the vicinity. The sheet of water,
which was apparently half a mile wide, had a bend some distance from the
wharf, so that he could not see any farther; but he had no difficulty in
coming to the conclusion that the water was an arm of the bay.

On board of the Leopard, for the name was on the front of the
pilot-house, he could see only two men, one of whom came out of the
engine-room; and he judged that they were the pilot and engineer.
Doubtless the former was also the captain of the craft.

While one of the two men seated himself on the rail, the other came on
shore. He was a man of very small stature, and looked as though his
health was very poor. Indeed, his step was quite feeble, and he seemed
to have hardly strength enough to handle his frame. As the tug had just
come in, doubtless he had been on duty the whole or a portion of the
night, which may have explained his exhausted condition.

"Good-morning, Captain Pecklar," said the sentinel on duty at the wharf.

"Good morning, Tubbs. Where is Major Pierson?" asked the captain of the
Leopard, in a very faint voice.

"He is still asleep, and he has his bed at the foot of that tree
yonder," replied the sentinel, pointing at it. "How do you find yourself
this morning? Any better?"

"About the same; I am about used up for this world," replied Captain
Pecklar, continuing his painful walk towards the tree indicated.

"Is that the captain of the Leopard?" asked Christy.

"Yes, poor fellow! He came down here two years ago from somewhere North,
almost gone in consumption. He got a little better; but he is worse
again, and I don't believe he will last much longer," replied the
sentry.

"Has he been out all night on the steamer?" inquired Christy, who felt
that it was his duty to obtain all the information he could in regard to
this steamer, as it was in the service of the commander of Fort Gaines.

"I don't know where he has been; but I suppose he has been on duty all
night, and that don't agree with him at all. We came up here yesterday
afternoon--Well, never mind what we have been about. I forgot that you
were a prisoner; and you may be a Yankee, for aught I know."

Before Christy had time to make any reply, the sentinel walked away, and
the major was seen coming from his bed with Captain Pecklar. They went
to the wharf together, where they seated themselves on a box which lay
there. The prisoner turned away from them; and the major took no notice
of him, and did not appear to see him, or he would certainly have
identified him.

Christy's bed was just behind them, when they had seated themselves; and
he dropped down on his blanket, rolled it about him as well as he could,
and then pretended to be asleep, as Percy was still, in spite of the
noise of the escaping steam on board of the boat.

"What have you done with your men, Captain Pecklar?" asked the major.

"I have just told you that the steamer had changed her position,"
replied the captain.

"I did not understand you," returned the major. "Do you mean that she
has left the wharf?"

"I do: she was out at least two miles from the shore," added Captain
Pecklar.

"Two miles from the shore!" exclaimed Major Pierson. "What does that
mean?"

"I don't know, sir. Lieutenant Dallberg did not know what to make of it;
and he decided to take his two men to the shore, and investigate the
matter. He directed me to report this to you."

"But when did the Bellevite leave the wharf?" asked the major, evidently
very much puzzled at what he regarded as the singular conduct of the
owner of the steamer.

"I don't know, sir. It was after ten o'clock in the evening when we
first saw her out in the bay."

"Was she at anchor?"

"I think not. I was ordered not to go very near her, and I could not
tell."

"Do you know whether or not Captain Passford is on board of her?"

"Of course I do not. In fact, I know nothing at all about her, except
that she has left the wharf and come out into the bay. I think I heard
her screw in motion, though I am not sure; and that makes me think that
she is not at anchor. Mr. Dallberg thought he ought to go on shore,
visit Colonel Passford, and obtain further information if he could."

The major ordered the captain to embark the party at once.




CHAPTER XVIII

THE MORNING TRIP OF THE LEOPARD


If Major Pierson had had any curiosity at all in regard to the person
captured by the soldiers with his brother, he appeared to have forgotten
all about him. He took no notice of him after he left his bed of hay,
but then he was evidently very much disturbed by the fact that the
Bellevite had left the wharf.

Christy Passford was quite as much astonished as the major when he
learned that the steamer had left her berth at the wharf, and he was
utterly unable to account for the change of position. The movement had
been made since he left his uncle's mansion; for at that time the two
brothers were still in the library, and he had no knowledge whatever of
what was passing between them.

The major ordered all his men on board the Leopard, and directed the
sergeant to conduct the prisoners to the deck of the tug. Percy was
waked when he was wanted, and he had slept soundly till that time.
With their hands still tied behind them, they were conducted to the
after-deck of the tug, where there was a small space from which opened
the stateroom of the captain.

"I might as well jump overboard first as last," said Percy bitterly, as
he seated himself in the place assigned to him by Spottswood.

"It is hardly worth your while to do that, Percy. I don't think your
brother is likely to do you any harm," replied Christy.

"I would rather he drowned in deep water than be sent into the army as a
common soldier," said the victim, as he went to the rail and looked over
into the water.

But his companion was perfectly confident that he would not jump
overboard while his hands were tied behind him; for the chances were all
against him, though he might be willing to punish his brother by making
a demonstration in the direction indicated.

"The water is too cold at this time in the morning, Percy," said Christy
with a smile. "I think you ought to give your brother the credit of
having the reputation of your family at heart. If I had a brother, I had
about as lief have him drown himself as desert from the army."

"I don't call it deserting," replied Percy rather warmly.

"You can call it what you like, but that is what it was."

"It is no use to talk with you about it. Where are we going now?"
demanded Percy impatiently.

"We are going to look out for the Bellevite, and perhaps you can get on
board her again," suggested Christy.

"Do you think I can?" asked the deserter with renewed interest.

"I am afraid your brother will look out too sharply for you. He has you
now, and he will hold on this time."

Christy had little sympathy for his companion. He was an able-bodied
young man of eighteen, with influence enough behind him to give him a
good show in the ranks if he did his duty. But he was the youngest
child of his father and mother; and he had evidently been spoiled by
indulgence, so that he was not fit for the stern duties of the present
emergency.

The steamer seemed to be very short handed, and doubtless part of the
work on board was done by the soldiers, for the tug seemed to be in the
employ of the fort. There was no crew, so far as Christy could judge,
except the captain and engineer; and both of these seemed to be
invalids, for the latter was so lame he could hardly go. The soldiers
hauled in the fasts, and seemed to be at home with this sort of work.

The Leopard backed out from the wharf, came about, and headed down the
inlet, or whatever it was. She had hardly left the pier before Major
Pierson appeared on the quarter-deck, which had been assigned for the
use of the prisoners. His gaze was first fixed on Percy; for the other
prisoner was looking astern, in order to obtain some idea of where he
was, if he could, for he thought such information might be of some use
to him in the future.

"Well, Percy, how goes it now?" asked the major.

Christy heard the voice, which was the first he knew of the presence of
a third person, and he turned about. The major started back as though he
had seen his father with his hands tied behind him by his order.

"Good Heaven! Mr. Passford!" exclaimed the major; and Christy was
satisfied that his astonishment was sincere.

"That is certainly my name: I haven't forgotten it, if I am a prisoner
with my hands tied behind me," replied Christy, as good-naturedly as
though he had had no grievance.

"This is all a mistake!" ejaculated Major Pierson, evidently greatly
disturbed by the discovery he had just made, as he rushed upon the
prisoner, turned him around, and proceeded to untie the line which
bound him.

"I thought it must be a mistake," added Christy.

"You must have been with this brother of mine. I told Spottswood to
arrest Percy, for be has disgraced himself and his family; and I told
him to capture whoever might be with him, for I did not care to leave
behind an informant of what had been done, for it would only have made
my mother feel badly. That is really the whole of it. I am very sorry
indeed that you were subjected to this annoyance, Mr. Passford; and I
assure you I will do all in my power to atone for my offence."

"I am satisfied, Major Pierson; and the only thing that disturbs me is
the fact that my father and sister will worry about my absence," replied
Christy.

"You are no longer a prisoner, Mr. Passford, and you are at liberty to
go where you please."

"But my limits are rather circumscribed on board this tug."

"But I will soon put you on board your father's steamer."

"Thank you, sir; that is all I can desire."

"Can't you do as much as that for me, Lindy?" asked Percy, when he saw
that his brother was about to leave him.

"If you say that you will return to your place in your regiment, I will
release you at once," replied the brother.

"I won't do that," answered Percy without any hesitation. "But I want
to go into the navy. I am better fitted for a sailor than I am for a
soldier."

"The first thing is to wipe out the disgrace you have cast upon yourself
and your family," added the major warmly. "I induced your officers to
look upon it as a freak of a boy, and by returning to your duty you can
soon wipe out the stigma."

"I shall not become a common soldier if I can help it. My father and
mother will stand by me, if the rest of you do not," said Percy.

"That's enough; and you will go back to the army, whether or not you are
willing," added the major, as he turned on his heel.

Christy followed him to the forecastle of the tug, where a rather heavy
gun was mounted, which took up most of the space.

"Take a seat, Mr. Passford," said the major, giving him a stool, while
he took another himself. "It looks as though your father changed his
plans rather suddenly last evening."

"I was not aware of it," replied Christy.

"The Bellevite was taken from the wharf where you landed some time in
the evening, and came out into the bay, where she seems to be waiting
for something, I don't know what. As I understand the matter, your
father has sold the steamer to the Confederacy."

"Where did you learn that, Major Pierson?" asked Christy, who had not
heard any such story.

"You certainly came from Nassau?"

"We did."

"And you met my father there?"

"I did not meet him, but my father did."

"I understood that my father bought this steamer, or that he bargained
for her in some manner, for the use of the Confederacy."

"I was not present at the interview between your father and mine, and I
do not know just what passed between them."

"And I understood that he sent Percy to act as a sort of agent for the
delivery of the vessel; though it still puzzles me to comprehend how my
father should do such a thing, especially when he knew that the boy
would be arrested as a deserter if he showed his face anywhere near
Mobile."

Christy felt that his tongue might be a dangerous member, and he was not
disposed to talk about the matter at all. All the information which the
major had derived from Captain Passford and others had been accepted
from inference; for the owner of the Bellevite certainly had not said
that the steamer was for the use of the Confederacy, and he would have
blown her up rather than admit any thing of the sort.

"It looked to me as though every thing was all right about the steamer,
or I would not have let her pass the fort; and the commander at Fort
Morgan was as well satisfied as I was, after I had explained the
situation to him."

Major Pierson looked at Christy as though he expected him to talk on the
subject before them; but the latter would not say any thing, for he saw
that he was in an extremely delicate position. He made some sort of
answers, but they amounted to nothing.

"I cannot understand why Captain Passford has moved the Bellevite from
the wharf," continued the major.

"I am as much in the dark as you are, sir. I spent the afternoon with my
sister, and my uncle Homer and my father were in the library together
all this time," replied Christy. "I have no idea what they were talking
about. Just at dark, I saw Percy pass the window; and I went out for a
little walk. I was arrested by your men soon after. Not a word had been
said in my hearing about moving the steamer. That is all I know about
the matter, and I am as much surprised as you can be at the change which
has been made."

"I have no doubt that every thing connected with the steamer is all
right. I know that your father is a Northern man, but I am confident
that he will be on the right side in this conflict," added the major.

"He will certainly be on the right side," said Christy; but he had gone
far enough to know that there were two right sides to the question, and
one seemed to him to be as honest, earnest, and resolute as the other.

"We shall soon know something more about it," added the major, evidently
disappointed at not being able to obtain any information from the
owner's son.

The tug went out into the bay, and then changed her course to the
eastward. One of the soldiers went to the galley, and breakfast was
served to the major and his guest in the captain's room; and Percy was
released long enough to take the meal with them. But he was sullen, and
even morose, in view of the fate that awaited him.

"Boat just come round that point," said the captain from the
pilot-house, when the party had returned to the forecastle.

Captain Pecklar seemed to be hardly able to speak; he was so exhausted
by his night watch, and by constant fits of coughing, that he could
hardly make himself heard.

"What boat is it, Pecklar?" asked the major, straining his eyes to
discover it. "I don't see it."

"Take my glass, and you can see it," added the captain, more faintly
than before. "I don't think I can stand it any longer, Major Pierson."

"But we can't get along without you, Pecklar. We haven't another hand
that knows how to steer," replied the major, as he hastened up to the
pilot-house, followed by Christy.

Captain Pecklar had fainted and fallen from the wheel.




CHAPTER XIX

THE REPORT OF THE SCOUT FROM THE SHORE


Captain Pecklar had held out as long as it was possible for him to stand
it, and he had only given up when his senses deserted him. Major Pierson
raised him from his position on the floor of the pilot-house, and, with
Christy's assistance, bore him out into the air.

The wheel had gone over when the sick man could no longer hold it, and
the tug was beginning to whirl about in an erratic manner, when the
major rang the bell to stop the engine. The captain was carried down to
his room, and put into his berth, where one of the soldiers was detailed
to act as his nurse.

"I haven't a man on board that knows the first thing about handling a
steamboat; and I am not a bit wiser myself," said the major, when the
sick man had been disposed of. "Every man that is fit to be made into a
soldier is sent to the army; and we have nothing but the lame, and the
halt, and the blind to handle these boats."

"It does not look like good policy," added Christy.

"Dallberg and his two men are soldiers, and they know no more about a
steamboat than the rest of us," continued Major Pierson. "It looks as
though we should have to stay here till some other boat comes along; and
that may be in three days or a week, for steamers have no occasion to
come up here now."

"Perhaps you may find a pilot among the men in that boat," suggested
Christy, as he looked about the pilot-house, where the conversation took
place.

The captain's glass was lying on a shelf in front of the wheel, and he
took a look through it in order to find the boat. After searching in
every direction, he discovered the boat, which was pulled by two men,
with a third in the stern-sheets. He indicated the position of it to the
major, and gave him the glass.

"That's Dallberg, without any doubt; but he must be five miles off. He
can't reach the steamer for a long time," said the major, when he had
examined the boat. "But we shall be no better off than we are now when
she gets here, for not one of those in it is a sailor."

Christy was not a little interested in the situation; for he thought his
father must have gone on board of the Bellevite, or she would not have
changed her position. It was all a mystery to him as well as to the
commandant of Fort Gaines, and the boat in the distance had been to the
shore for the purpose of investigating it.

He had an idea in his head, and he continued to examine the interior of
the pilot-house till he found a number of paper rolls in a drawer, which
looked very much like local charts of the bay. He examined several of
them, and found one which covered the portion of the waters around him.
He had noted the direction taken by the Bellevite the day before, and he
had no difficulty in placing the inlet where she had moored at the
wharf.

"What have you got there, Mr. Passford?" asked the major, who had been
looking on the floor, thinking what he should do in his present dilemma.

  [Illustration: "You a Sailor?" (Page 215)]

"It is a chart of these waters, which appears to have been considerably
improved with a pen and ink," replied Christy, still examining it.

"That is the work of Captain Pecklar. They call him the best pilot for
Mobile Bay there is about here, though he has been here but two years."

"Here is the inlet, or river, where we passed the night; and the captain
has marked the wharf on it."

"What good is the chart without a man that knows how to steer a
steamer?" asked the major, who was becoming very impatient in the
presence of the delay that confronted him; for the illness of Captain
Pecklar deprived him of the ability to do any thing, even to return to
the fort.

"You forget that I am a sailor, Major Pierson," said Christy.

"You a sailor? I thought you were the son of a millionnaire, who could
not possibly know any thing except how to eat and sleep," replied the
soldier, laughing.

"I have steered the Bellevite for a great many hundred miles, and my
father says I am competent to do duty as a quartermaster."

"You astonish me; and, as we are both engaged in the same good cause,
I am heartily delighted to find that you are a sailor."

"Probably I shall astonish you still more before we have got through.
With this chart before me, I have no doubt I can find my way about here
in the Leopard," said Christy.

"Then I give you the command of the steamer in the absence of Captain
Pecklar," continued the major. "This boat and another are in the service
of the forts; and if you don't want to join the army with Percy, perhaps
I can obtain the appointment for you, especially as you are hardly old
enough to go into the ranks. We will see about that."

"We will leave all that open for future action, if you please, Major
Pierson," replied Christy, as he rang the bell for the steamer to go
ahead.

The major watched him with the most intense interest, as though he
feared that the young man would prove to be a failure as a steamboat
captain. But the steamer went ahead at the sound of the bell, and in
a minute or two Christy had her on her course in the direction of the
approaching boat. He examined the chart very carefully, and satisfied
himself that there was water enough for the tug anywhere outside the
headlands which projected into the hay.

The Leopard held her course as steadily as though the sick captain were
still at the wheel; and the major was entirely satisfied with the
qualifications of the new master, after he had watched him for a while.

"Spottswood, how is the captain?" called the major from the pilot-house.

"Just the same: he don't seem to be any better," replied the sergeant.

"He ought to have a doctor; for the poor fellow may die here, away from
any proper attendance," said the major, with more feeling than the new
captain supposed he possessed.

"There is a very skilful surgeon on board of the Bellevite," suggested
Christy. "Dr. Linscott served in the army in Mexico, and had a large
practice in New York."

"Then he shall see Pecklar. Dr. Linscott is just the sort of a surgeon
we want in our army; and I suppose he would not be on board of the
Bellevite if he was not of our way of thinking," added the major.

Christy knew he was nothing but a Union man, and not of the way of
thinking which the soldier suggested: so he said nothing. The Leopard
was a faster tug than the one which had come off from Fort Gaines, and
she came up with the boat which contained Lieutenant Dallberg and his
two men, the latter of whom were nearly exhausted with the long pull
they had taken; for, as they were not sailors, they did not row to the
best advantage.

The new captain rang the bell to stop her, as soon as the boat came
near, and the party came on board. The two men seated themselves on the
rail as though they never intended to do another stroke of work, for
they had been using the oars most of the time since the evening before.

"Come up here, Dallberg," called the major from the pilot-house.

The lieutenant looked as though he had just been through one war;
for he had slept none the night before, and had been on duty without
intermission. He came to the hurricane-deck, and entered the
pilot-house, where he dropped on the sofa abaft the wheel as though he
were not in much better condition than the captain when he fell at his
post.

"You have made a night of it, Dallberg," the major began, seating
himself by the side of the lieutenant.

"I am about used up, major. I believe I walked ten miles on shore; and I
am not as strong as I wish I was," replied Mr. Dallberg. "But I found
out all I wanted to know, and I expected the Leopard would be somewhere
near the creek."

"I beg your pardon, Major Pierson," said Christy, who was standing at
the wheel. "What am I to do now?"

"I will tell you in a moment.--Can you tell me, Dallberg, where the
Bellevite is at the present time?" asked the major, turning to the
lieutenant.

"She seems to be running up and down across the head of the bay. She is
beyond that point now, and you will see her when you go within a mile of
the land," replied the lieutenant.

"Have you been near her?"

"Not within a mile of her, I should say."

"All right, you may head her within a mile of that point, Captain
Passford," added the major; and Christy rang to go ahead.

When the major applied this high-sounding title to the new captain, the
lieutenant opened his eyes a little; but he asked no questions, for he
had learned as he came on board that Captain Pecklar had fainted at his
post.

"Well, what have you been about, Dallberg?" asked the major rather
impatiently, as soon as the boat was under way again.

"Walking, talking, and rowing most of the time. As the poet says,
'Things are not what they seem,'" replied the scout; for such appeared
to be the duty in which he had been engaged.

"What do you mean by that?" asked Major Pierson, opening his eyes very
wide.

"We discovered that the steamer had left the wharf last night, and you
sent me to investigate when you started off in that wagon."

"That's so; and Pecklar reported to me early this morning that the
steamer had left the wharf, and was standing off and on in the bay."

"I went ashore in the evening, leaving Pecklar to watch the steamer.
I don't know any thing about his movements."

"He reported to me this morning about daylight. It is all right as far
as he is concerned. What have you done?"

"I landed at the wharf where the Bellevite had been moored, about eleven
o'clock, I should say, for I could not see my watch. I went up to
Colonel Passford's house, and found it all in commotion."

"What was the matter?"

"Colonel Passford was not there: he had gone off to procure assistance."

"Assistance for what?" demanded the major. "You are sleepy, Dallberg,
and you are mixing your story."

"I am sleepy and exhausted, but I will try to do better. I saw Mrs.
Passford. She told me that her brother-in-law, Captain Horatio Passford,
had come to the house that day, with his son; and you are aware, I
believe, that his daughter, Miss Florence, has been there all winter."

"I know all about that. Go ahead, Dallberg."

"The two brothers had been shut up in the library all the afternoon,
engaged in an earnest discussion; though the colonel's wife did not know
what it was about. Captain Horatio left Colonel Homer in the library
some time in the evening, and the colonel remained there till after ten.
Then it was found that the captain had left the house secretly, with his
daughter and his son; though some of the servants had seen the young man
going up the road with Percy Pierson."

"Exactly so; never mind the young man now. The captain had left the
house, and his daughter went with him?" repeated the major, beginning to
be a good deal excited.

"The house was searched, but they could not be found; and the young
lady's trunk had been removed from her room. Then the colonel went down
to the wharf, and found that the Bellevite had left."

Major Pierson sprang to his feet, hardly able to contain himself.




CHAPTER XX

A REBELLION IN THE PILOT-HOUSE


Captain Passford had obtained the idea, from the fact that Florry did
not like to have the major gaze at her all the time, that she was not
very deeply interested in him; and the conclusion afforded him a great
deal of satisfaction. She did not like to leave her uncle and aunt and
her two cousins without saying good-by to them; but she had not said a
word about the military gentleman who was supposed to have made frequent
visits at the mansion on her account.

When Lieutenant Dallberg informed Major Pierson that Miss Florry had
left the house, and that her trunk had been removed, indicating that she
did not intend to return, the effect upon him was very decided. However
it may have been with the young lady, it was plain enough that he was
stirred to the very centre of his being.

"Then Captain Passford has left the mansion?" said the Major, after he
had strode several times across the little pilot-house, as he halted in
front of the lieutenant.

"No doubt of that; the family and the servants hunted the house all over
in search of him and his daughter," replied Mr. Dallberg with a yawn.

"Well, what did Colonel Passford say about him?" demanded the major.

"He was not at the house when I got there. As I said, he had gone for
assistance. I could do nothing till I had seen him. I sent my men on
ahead to look for him, and then I went myself. We did not find him till
one o'clock in the morning. He had given up all his horses for the
service, and we had to go on foot," continued the lieutenant.

"But you saw Colonel Passford?"

"I did; but he had been unable to find the persons of whom he had
been in search, and he could procure no such assistance as he wished.
I walked back to his mansion with him. At first he was not inclined to
say any thing to me; but when I told him that you were over here in the
Leopard to look out for the steamer, he had more confidence in me."

"Well, what did he say?" asked the major impatiently.

"He would not say any thing till I had told him all I knew, including
the manner in which the steamer had passed the forts. By this time we
had reached his house, and we seated ourselves in the library."

"You need not stop to describe the chairs or the sofa," interposed the
excited commandant of the fort.

"I will not; but, if I omit any thing, it will not be my fault," said
the younger officer with a long gape. "He told me he and his brother had
been discussing the great question, as he called it, for over six hours;
and they understood each other perfectly in the end."

"Six hours! It is a wonder they did not talk each other to death!"
exclaimed the major.

"At any rate, they talked enough to enable them to come to a perfect
understanding. Colonel Passford is as true to the Confederacy as we all
know him to be, but Captain Passford is a Yankee to the marrow of his
bones; and the two brothers could not agree at all on the political
question, though they profess still to be friends."

"Then the owner of the Bellevite is on the other side?"

"No doubt of that; and the steamer did not come down here to go into the
service of the Confederacy," added the lieutenant.

"But she will go into it, all the same," said the major, glancing at the
new captain of the Leopard.

Christy was quite as much excited over the conversation to which he
could not help being a listener, even if he had wished not to be so. It
was clear enough to him that the whole object of the voyage to Mobile
Bay had come out, and the major needed no further information to enable
him to act with promptness and decision. The fact that Miss Florry must
be on board of the Bellevite was doubtless an additional incentive to
make him do his entire duty to the Confederacy.

"I think I have told you the whole story, Major Pierson," said
Lieutenant Dallberg with another prodigious yawn.

"Then Captain Passford and his daughter are now on board of the
steamer," added the major; though he seemed to be musing on the fact,
rather than saying it to his companion.

"There can be no doubt of that," replied the other.

"As Captain Passford is a Yankee at heart, of course he don't intend
to remain in these waters much longer," continued the major, giving
utterance to his reflections.

"There is something more than that, which I forgot to tell you; for you
hurried me so that I could not keep my thoughts about me," interposed
the lieutenant.

"What more is there? You said you had told me the whole," said the
major, with a sneer on his lips.

"The Bellevite is intended for the Yankee navy, and she has already been
tendered to the Government for that purpose. More yet, Captain Passford
and the commander of the steamer have offered their services. The owner
is sure that all hands will be volunteers for the service as soon as she
returns from this trip," continued Dallberg, who had suddenly roused his
energies to the requirements of the situation.

"I had no doubt that Captain Passford would be with his brother in this
war," mused the major.

"He could not be any farther from him. He came down here after his
daughter, and his brother says he expected to remove him and his family
to the North at the same time."

"His mission will be a failure in every sense," added Major Pierson, as
though he regarded it as a matter of course.

"The colonel said his duty to his country and her cause would not allow
him to suffer his brother to take the steamer back to the North to be
handed over to the Yankee navy."

"That is where he was quite right."

"But the colonel does not like to do any thing to injure his brother
and his two children who are with him; and he wished to find Colonel
Dalheath, who could manage the business without loss to the Confederacy,
while he could favor the captain's escape. But he was satisfied that you
would feel an interest to prevent the departure of the steamer; while
you would not be willing to do her owner or his family any injury in
their persons, however it might be in their property."

"I think I understand the situation perfectly now," said the major, as
he went to the front windows of the pilot-house. "Spottswood!" he called
to the sergeant.

"Here, sir."

"How is Captain Pecklar?"

"He has come to himself, but he is no better. I am afraid he is going to
die." replied Spottswood, coming near the bulkhead, and speaking in a
low tone.

"That's bad," added the major, shaking his head.

"There's the steamer, sir!" called one of the soldiers.

The Leopard had just passed a point of land beyond which the Bellevite
was discovered, apparently going at full speed, and headed to the
south-west. Christy brought his glass to bear upon her, but he could see
nothing which afforded him any information in regard to her movements or
intentions.

"I suppose it is not difficult to determine what your father's steamer
is waiting in the bay for, Mr. Passford," said Major Pierson, as he
looked into the face of his pilot.

"I am sure I don't know what he is waiting for," replied Christy.

"Don't you, indeed?" added the major, laughing.

"I am sure I do not."

"Then, it has not occurred to you that he misses you, and don't like to
leave without you?" chuckled the major. "I did not intend to have you
captured by my men, and I gave them no definite orders to that effect;
but, as things look just now, it is rather fortunate that I have you on
board of the Leopard, not only for the sake of your father's waiting for
you, but you are a good pilot, and are of great service to me."

Christy rang the bell with a sudden impulse, which made it look as
though he had not fully taken in the situation before. The engineer,
though he was one of the army of the disabled in whole or in part,
obeyed the summons of the bell, and the propeller ceased to revolve.

"What's that for, Captain Passford?" asked the major good-naturedly.

"With your permission, Major Pierson, I will resign my office as captain
of the Leopard," replied Christy, as he stepped back from the wheel.

"But I cannot give you my permission," laughed the major.

"I am sorry to disoblige you, Major Pierson; but then I am compelled to
resign the position without your permission," replied Christy without an
instant's hesitation; for he clearly understood what he was doing now,
and neither really nor constructively was he willing to do any thing in
the service of the enemies of the Union.

"But you can't resign in the face of the enemy, Captain Passford; and
you accepted the position which I assigned to you," said the major,
beginning to look a little more serious.

"In the face of the enemy!" exclaimed Christy, glancing at the
Bellevite, as she dashed furiously over the waves at a distance of not
more than a mile from the tug. "May I ask what you mean by the enemy,
Major Pierson?"

"Yon must have heard all the information which was brought to me by
Lieutenant Dallberg; and by this time you are aware that the steamer
yonder is an enemy of the Confederate States," continued the major.

"She did not come into these waters as an enemy, or with any warlike
intentions, sir. She came on a peaceful mission; and now it appears that
my uncle is guilty of treachery towards my father," replied Christy with
deep emotion.

"Do you think it would be right or proper for your uncle to allow that
fine steamer, which I am told is one of the strongest and fastest ever
built, to be handed over to the Yankee navy?" demanded the major, with
energy enough to assure his auditor that he meant all he said.

"I happen to know that my father had several hundred dollars about him
in gold; and my uncle would have done no worse to rob him of that, than
to have his steamer taken from him when it was not engaged in acts of
war. In either case, Homer Passford is a thief and a robber!"

"That's plain speech, young man," said the major, biting his lips.

"I meant it should be plain, sir," said Christy, gasping for breath in
his deep emotion. "I am ashamed of my uncle, and I know that my father
would not be guilty of such treachery."

"I see that it is useless to reason with you, Passford."

"You have come to a correct conclusion. When you call my father's
steamer an enemy, you define my duty for me; and I have nothing further
to do on board of this tug," replied Christy. "I am in your power, and
of course you can do with me as you please."

Major Pierson was certainly very much embarrassed. The events of the
night, and the information obtained on shore, to say nothing of the
specific request from Colonel Passford to "manage the business," imposed
upon him the duty of capturing the Bellevite; and he was all ready to do
it. But the Leopard might as well have been without an engine as without
a pilot; for all the men on board were from the interior of the country,
and not one of them, not even the officers, knew how to steer the boat.

The marks and figures on the chart of the bay, which Christy had put on
the shelf in front of the wheel, were all Greek to them. Possibly they
might get the tug to the shore, or aground on the way to it; but the
steamer was practically disabled.




CHAPTER XXI

THE SICK CAPTAIN OF THE LEOPARD


Christy Passford now realized, for the first time, that he had
been taken by the enemy. War had actually been declared against the
Bellevite, and Major Pierson would undertake to perform the duty
assigned to him by Colonel Passford. The young man was determined to be
true to his colors under all possible circumstances; and therefore he
could do nothing, directly or indirectly, to assist in the capture of
the steamer.

Captain Passford, while he recognized the irregularity of his mission,
had come into the waters of Mobile Bay with no intention of committing
any depredations on the persons, property, or vessels of the
Confederacy. The Bellevite had not fired a shot, or landed a force,
in the enemy's country.

Indeed, the owner of the steamer had taken especial pains to conceal any
appearance of using force on coming into the bay; and all the guns on
the deck of the vessel, that could not be easily lowered into the hold,
had been covered up and concealed. Though Major Pierson had spent some
time on board of the Bellevite, he did not know whether or not she was
armed. He was no wiser than the owner's brother.

The major went to the lower deck of the Leopard, where Christy saw him
questioning the soldiers there, though he could not hear any thing that
was said. Of course he was inquiring for some hand who had steered a
steamer; but he soon returned alone, and it looked as though he had not
found the person he sought.

"It looks like bad weather, Mr. Passford, since you decline to be called
captain any longer," said the major, as he came into the pilot-house,
and looked at the sky in all directions.

Christy had noticed the weather signs before; and the wind was beginning
to pipe up a rather fresh blast, though the sun had been out for an hour
or more earlier in the morning. It came from the southward, and it was
already knocking up a considerable sea, as it had the range of the whole
length of the bay.

"I was thinking that we should have a storm before long when I looked at
the signs this morning," replied Christy rather indifferently.

"How many men does your father have on board of his steamer, Mr.
Passford?" asked the major, in a careless sort of way.

"Not as many, I should say, as you have in Fort Gaines. By the way, how
many have you under your command there?" returned Christy with a twinkle
of the eye.

"We have two thousand four hundred and twenty-six, including myself,"
replied the major.

"That is quite a force; my father has only seven hundred and forty-two,
without counting me."

"Where do you put them all?"

"We stow them away in the hold, after the manner of packing sardines in
a box. We only let them out one at a time, when we feed them with salt
fish and baked beans."

"That makes a good many men to a gun," suggested the major.

"Lots of them," answered Christy.

"How many guns does the steamer carry?"

"Only two hundred; of course I mean heavy guns,--sixty and eighty-four
pounders. I think there must be small arms enough to supply all your men
in the fort."

"I was on board of the Bellevite for half an hour or more, and I really
did not see a single heavy gun," added the major, biting his lip.

"Didn't you notice the one hundred and twenty pounder in the waist? It
is big enough for you to have seen it."

It was plain enough to the young Unionist that the major really desired
to know something about the force and metal of the Bellevite, and that
he was disappointed when he found that the son of the owner was on his
guard. No information was to be obtained from him.

"I think you said there was a doctor on board of the steamer," continued
Major Pierson, changing the subject of the conversation.

"Yes, sir; and a very skilful surgeon he is,--Dr. Linscott," replied
Christy.

"I went in to see Captain Pecklar when I was below, and I found him in a
very bad condition. I am afraid he will die before we can get him to the
shore; and he is suffering terribly," added the major, looking earnestly
into the face of the young man.

"I am sorry for him," replied Christy; and his pity and sympathy were
apparent in his face.

He had noticed the captain of the tug in the morning, and one of the
soldiers had told him he was a Northern man who had come to this region
for his health. He appeared to have no scruples at doing the duty
assigned to him, though he had been only two years at the South. But he
seemed to be of no use to either side in the contest, for he was too
sick to work any longer.

Christy was filled with pity for the sufferings of the captain of the
tug, and he thought the major's questions suggested that something was
to be required of him in connection with the sick man. He was willing to
do any thing he could for the aid of the captain, if he could do it
without sacrificing his principles.

"It was a part of my purpose to obtain assistance from the surgeon of
the steamer for poor Pecklar," continued the major. "But you have moored
us all here by refusing to steer the boat, and the captain will die
without our being able to do a single thing for him. There is not even a
drop of brandy on board of this boat to restore him."

"What do you propose to do, Major Pierson?" asked Christy.

"Just now, all I desire is to procure assistance for poor Pecklar,"
replied the major. "But we are as helpless as though we were all babies,
for we can't handle the steamer, and cannot run down to the Bellevite.
I hope you will not have the death of this poor fellow on your
conscience."

"I will not. I will take the Leopard alongside of the Bellevite, if you
like," replied Christy; and he regarded this as a mission of humanity
which he had no right to decline.

"The steamer has turned about!" shouted one of the soldiers on the
forecastle.

Christy had noticed that the Bellevite was coming about before the
announcement came from below, for his nautical eye enabled him to see
her first movement. He did not feel that the service he was about to
render would benefit the enemy, on the one hand; and he hoped that his
father or some other person on board of the Bellevite would see him in
the pilot-house, on the other hand. If he could only let his father know
where he was, he felt that he should remove a heavy burden from his mind
and that of his sister.

What else might come from getting near to the steamer, he did not
venture to consider. But he could not help figuring up the number of
soldiers on board of the tug; the force which had captured him and
Percy consisted of four men, and two men were with the lieutenant. Two
officers and six men was the available force of the enemy on board of
the little steamer, for neither the captain nor the engineer was fit for
duty.

"I accept your offer, Captain Passford; and we have no time to spare, or
the sick man may die," said the major.

Christy made no reply, but went to the wheel, and rang the bell to go
ahead. Heading the Leopard for the Bellevite, he gave himself up to a
consideration of the situation. Major Pierson immediately left the
pilot-house, and did not return. No stipulations of any kind had been
made, and no terms had been imposed upon Christy. All that he desired
was that his father should see him, and know where he was.

No one but himself on board could handle the steamer; and he could not
be sent out of the pilot-house, or concealed so that he should not be
seen. On the other hand, it did not seem to him that the officer could
do any thing towards capturing the Bellevite. The major desired to
ascertain what force she had, and had asked some questions calculated
to throw light on the subject.

If the steamer had come into the bay on a peaceful errand, as Christy
insisted that she had, the major might easily believe that she was not
armed, and that she had only men enough to man her. But Christy could
not tell what his captor was thinking about, and he could not yet
enlarge his plans for the future; but he was very certain in his own
mind, that he should not let pass any opportunity to escape, even at
great risk, from his present situation.

As the Leopard went off on her course, considerably shaken by the fresh
breeze which had stirred up a smart sea, the acting captain of the tug
saw that all the men who had been on the forecastle had disappeared,
with a single exception. The major was not to be seen, and doubtless
he was taking care of the sick captain, or arranging his plan for the
interview with the people of the Bellevite. In a few minutes more, this
last man disappeared, and Percy Pierson took his place on the
forecastle.

"So you are a Yank, are you, Mr. Pierson?" said he of that name, looking
up to the window at which Christy stood.

"Whatever I am, I am in command of a Confederate steamer," replied
Christy, laughing. "What is your brother doing, Mr. Percy?"

"I am sure I don't know: he is only talking to the men," answered the
young man, who had evidently been put there to act as a lookout.

At that moment a voice was heard from farther aft, and Percy went
towards the stern of the boat. A few minutes later he ascended to the
pilot-house. On the sofa abaft the wheel was Lieutenant Dallberg, where
he had dropped asleep as he finished his report of what he had learned
on shore.

"Mr. Dallberg!" shouted Percy; but the lieutenant did not show any signs
of life till the messenger had shaken him smartly. "Major Pierson wants
you down below."

The officer rubbed his eyes for a moment, and then rose from the sofa,
and left the apartment. The summons for the lieutenant made it look to
Christy as though something was in progress below. There was only one
thing which the major could think of doing; and that was to capture the
Bellevite, either by force or by strategy. He would have given a good
deal to know what the plan was, but it seemed to him to be quite
impossible to leave the wheel.

"How is the sick man, Percy?" asked Christy, when he found that the
messenger was not disposed to leave the pilot-house.

"He is a good deal better: they have just given him another glass of
brandy," replied Percy.

This statement did not agree with that of the major, who had told him
the captain was likely to die, and that there was not a drop of brandy
on board of the boat. The commandant of the fort had evidently been
acting in the pilot-house with a purpose.

"Didn't your brother order you to stay on the forecastle, Mr. Percy?"
asked Christy, when his companion came to the wheel on the opposite side
from the helmsman.

"No: he said if I would help him, he would do what he could for me; and
he told me to keep a lookout at this end of the tug. I can see ahead
better here than I can down below," replied Percy, as he tried to turn
the wheel. "I believe I could steer this thing."

"I know you could, Percy. Do you see the Bellevite?"

"Of course I do: I'm not blind."

"She has stopped her screw, and is not going ahead now," added Christy,
as he let go the spokes of the wheel, and proceeded to instruct his
pupil.

A few minutes later, Christy left the pilot-house to take a look below.




CHAPTER XXII

THE PROCEEDINGS ON THE LOWER DECK


Christy Passford did not consider Percy Pierson a competent helmsman,
for he had spent but a few minutes in instructing him in handling the
wheel; in fact, only long enough to induce him to "steer small." For the
moment, Percy was interested in the occupation, and gave his whole mind
to it; and Christy intended to remain where he could reach the wheel in
a moment if occasion should require. His companion in the pilot-house
did not seem to care what he did.

The Bellevite, as the new captain had observed before, had stopped her
screw: and she appeared to be waiting for the tug to come up, as it was
headed towards her. Christy had examined her with the glass, but he
could see nothing which gave him any idea of what was going on upon her
decks. As Florry was now on board of her, he was satisfied that his
father could only be waiting for him; and he intended to do his best to
report on board some time during the day.

Major Pierson and his little force were gathered under the
hurricane-deck, in the space from which opened the door of the captain's
little cabin. Christy could not see a single one of them from the upper
deck; but he had gone but a few steps aft before he heard the voice of
the major who seemed to be "laying down the law" in a forcible manner to
his men.

"Do you understand me, Spikeley?" demanded the major slowly and loudly,
as though he were talking to a deaf man.

Christy had not heard the name of Spikeley before; but he concluded that
he must be one of the soldiers, probably one of the two who had come on
board with Lieutenant Dallberg.

"I don't think I do," replied the man addressed, in a tone quite as loud
as that of the military officer.

"You are not to start the engine under any circumstances," continued the
major, in a louder tone than before, as if the man had failed to hear
him.

The man addressed as Spikeley must be the engineer then, and not a
soldier, Christy realized at once.

"Don't I mind the bells, Major Pierson?" asked the engineer, whose tones
indicated that he was not a little astonished at the positive order he
had received.

"You will not mind the bells. You will take no notice of them after this
present moment. When I tell you to stop the engine, you will stop it,
not without, no matter how many times the bells ring," said the major
with emphasis.

"I hear you, and I understand now what I am to do," replied Spikeley.

"All right, so far; but do you understand what you are not to do?"
demanded the officer sharply, as though he fully comprehended the
obtuseness of the engineer.

"I reckon I do: I am not to start the engine till you tell me to start
it," answered the dull engineer.

"Not if you don't start it for a month!" added the major sternly.

"But you are going off, Major Pierson," suggested Spikeley. "If that
steamer over yonder looks like she was going to run over the Leopard,
I am not to start the engine to keep her from being sent to the bottom
of the bay?"

"No!" exclaimed the officer.

"All right, major; then you may find me on the bottom when you come
back."

"You will not be lost as long as I know where you are," added the major
with a chuckle.

"Are you coining back to-day, major?"

"I don't know when I shall return. All you have to do is to obey orders,
and leave all the rest to me."

"Shall I be all alone on board?"

"That young fellow at the wheel will remain on board; but you are not to
mind what he says to you. Do you understand that?"

"I reckon I do," replied Spikeley.

"My brother, who was down here a little while ago, will also remain on
board; and Captain Pecklar will be in his room, for he cannot leave it.
That is all that will be on board. But no one will bother you, unless it
should be the fellow now at the wheel; and he can't do any harm as long
as you don't start the engine for him."

"I reckon I won't start the engine for him, or anybody else but you,
major. You can bet your commission on that," added the engineer, with
more vim in his speech than he had used before.

"All right, Spikeley; and I will see that you don't lose any thing,
if you are faithful to your duty. You must keep a sharp lookout for
Passford: that's the young fellow at the wheel. He is the only one that
can do any mischief, and I would not have him go near that steamer for a
thousand dollars."

Christy thought he understood what was in progress; at any rate, he
dared not remain any longer away from the wheel, and he returned to
the pilot-house. Percy was still interested in his occupation. He was
steering the tug very well for a beginner, and his brother was too busy
organizing his expedition to notice that the steering was a little wild;
for the waves caused the boat to yaw somewhat in the absence of a
skilled hand at the helm.

The Leopard was now within about half a mile of the Bellevite. The
latter turned her screw a few times once in a while to keep from
drifting, and Christy saw from his chart that the water was too shallow
for her in the direction in which the tug was approaching her. Of course
his father was aware that, by this time, his own and his daughter's
departure from his uncle's mansion was known. His own absence,
therefore, must be the only thing that detained her in these waters.

"I think I can steer this thing pretty well, Mr. Pierson," said Percy,
when the new captain joined him.

"You do it very well indeed for a beginner, Percy; but you need not call
me 'Mr. Pierson' any longer, for it takes too long to say it. Everybody
calls me Christy, and you had better follow the fashion," replied the
captain.

"All right, Christy, and I will do so; for there are more Piersons on
board of this boat now than I wish there were," added Percy, glancing at
the face of his companion.

"What is your brother going to do, Percy? He seems to be arranging
something on the lower deck," continued Christy.

"I don't know: he didn't tell me any thing at all about it. He wanted to
use me: so he soaped me."

"If he knew you could steer this steamer, he would have something more
for you to do."

"Then I won't tell him. All I want is to get away from him. He will make
a common soldier of me, and I shall never get out of the ranks."

"But you will fight like a brave fellow, and you will be promoted,"
suggested Christy.

"If I get a bullet through my carcass, they will make a corporal of me.
Then if I had half my head shot off, they might make a sergeant of me.
I am not thirsting for any such glory as that, and I expected to stay
with my father at Nassau."

"Did your brother ask you any thing about the Bellevite, Percy?"

"Not a thing: he would hardly speak to me, for he says I have disgraced
the family. But, Christy, now I think of it, you are not on the South
side of this question."

"How do you know I am not?" asked Christy, laughing.

"I heard my brother say so; and that he did not wish to have you, on any
account, go near that other steamer."

"I think we won't talk about that just now," added Christy cautiously,
for he was not inclined to have Percy know too much about his affairs at
present.

"Why not? After all my brother has done, and is trying to do, to me,
I don't think I am exactly on the South side of the question any more
than you are," said Percy, looking with interest into the face of his
companion. "If your father is a Union man, as Lindley says he is, he
don't mean to have the Bellevite go into the service of the
Confederacy."

"That is not bad logic, with the premises on which you base it."

"Just talk English, if you please, Christy."

"The English of it is, that if my father is a Union man, as your brother
says he is, the Bellevite is not going into the Southern navy," replied
Christy, willing to encourage the major's brother.

"I can understand that, Christy. Now, you are going on board of your
father's steamer if you can get there."

"I certainly don't want to stay on board of this little tub any longer
than I am obliged to do so, for you can see that I am really a
prisoner."

"So am I; and that is just where we ought to be friends, and stand by
each other," said Percy with a good deal of enthusiasm. "I can see
through a brick wall, when there is a hole in it."

"Good eyes you have, Percy, and you don't have to wear glasses."

"I don't know much about logic; but if the Bellevite is not going into
the Confederate navy, as I supposed when we came into Mobile Bay, I can
figure it out that she is not going to stay in these parts at all."

"That's your logic, Percy, not mine; but I don't think I care to argue
the question on the other side," said Christy, making very light of the
whole matter, though he was vastly more interested than he was willing
to acknowledge.

"She is going to get out of Mobile Bay, and she is going to do it just
as soon as she can. Now, the question is, where is she going then?"

"You will have to put that question to my father, Percy," said Christy.
"He can tell you what he is going to do a great deal better than I can."

"He is not within ear-shot of me just now: if he were, I would ask him
without stopping to soap my tongue."

"You may see him before long. I don't know what your brother is about
just now; and, for aught I know, he may intend to capture the
Bellevite."

"I reckon he will have a good time doing it, if your father and Captain
Breaker haven't a mind to let him do it."

"They will not wish to fight, even for their steamer, here in Mobile
Bay. I know that my father intended to keep the peace. Besides, your
brother may think there are few men on board of the vessel."

"I want to get on board of the Bellevite anyhow!" exclaimed Percy,
bluntly coming to the point at which he had been aiming for some time.

"I shall not do any thing to prevent you from doing so," added Christy.

"I don't say that I want to go into the Yankee navy, or that I will lift
a finger against my country, mind you."

He seemed to be equally unwilling to lift a finger for it.

"I don't ask you to do any thing against your conscience, Percy."

"If the Bellevite gets out of the bay with you and me on board,
I believe I can find some way to get back to Nassau. That is what I
am driving at."

"I can't say that the steamer will not go there," added Christy, who did
not mean to commit himself.

Suddenly, without any bell from the pilot-house, the engine of the
Leopard stopped; but Christy was not at all surprised at the failure of
the power, though Percy began to make himself very indignant over the
stoppage of the engine.




CHAPTER XXIII

THE EXPEDITION FROM THE LEOPARD


"What is the matter now?" demanded Percy Pierson, when the tug ceased to
shake under the pressure of the engine, and began to roll rather smartly
in the sea, though it was not heavy enough to be at all dangerous.

"It appears that the engine has stopped," replied Christy quietly.

"What has it stopped for?" asked the other.

"You will have to put that conundrum to your brother; but doubtless the
needs of the Confederate States require that it should stop."

"Which is the bell, Christy?" inquired Percy, looking at the pulls on
the frame of the wheel.

"The large one is the gong bell, the other is the speed bell, and the
latter is a jingler."

"Well, which one do you ring to start her?"

"One pull at the gong bell to stop or to start her," replied Christy,
who was rather anxious to have his companion learn the secrets of the
pilot-house.

"One bell to stop or start her," repeated Percy.

"Two bells to back her," added the acting captain.

"Two bells to back her. I can remember all that without writing it down.
But what is the other pull for. There don't seem to be any need of any
more bells."

"I think there is; at least, it saves striking too many strokes on the
gong when there is an emergency. The other is the speed bell."

"What is that for, to make her go faster?"

"Yes, or slower. If you start the engine, the engineer will run it
slowly at first, and continue to do so till he gets the speed bell,
or jingler, which he can never mistake for the gong."

"I see; and that is a good scheme."

"If you are approaching a wharf or another vessel, or if a fog come
up, you ring the jingler, if the boat is going at full speed, and the
engineer slows her down. If there is any danger, and you wish to stop
her as quick as you can, you ring one bell on the gong, which stops the
engine, and then two bells on the same, which reverses the engine. Now
let me see if you know all about it; for your brother may want you to
steer the Leopard, and become her captain, after he has tied my hands
behind me again."

"If he does that, I will cut you loose, Christy."

"Thank you, Percy. I don't know what he will do, but it seems to me that
he is going to do something;" and Christy proceeded to examine his pupil
in the use of the bell-pulls.

Percy made some mistakes, which were carefully corrected; and, as he did
so, the captain wrote down the directions in full, placing the paper on
the shelf with the chart.

The student of bell-pulls signalized the completion of his examination
by giving one pull at the gong; but it produced no effect at all upon
the engine or the engineer, and the Leopard, having fallen off into the
trough of the sea, had begun to roll more violently than at first.

"What is the matter with that engineer?" pouted Percy, who did not feel
flattered that his first experience with the bell-pulls produced no
effect, though he had distinctly heard the sound of the gong.

"They haven't sent any word up to the pilot house that the engine is
disabled, and we shall have to apply to Major Pierson for further
information."

"That engineer must have gone to sleep!" exclaimed Percy, whose vexation
was in proportion to his zeal.

He rang the gong again; but Christy understood why the screw did not
turn, though he deemed it wise to keep his own counsel for the present.
Percy was rousing himself to a passion at the neglect of the engineer to
heed his bell.

"Keep cool, Percy," interposed Christy. "Don't say a word to your
brother that you have learned to steer a steamer; and you may have a
chance to surprise him, and show that you are a good deal more of a
fellow than he takes you to be."

"I don't believe he will get such a chance if he don't have it now.
I wonder what he is up to," added Percy, restraining his impatience.

"We can only wait till his plans come out," added Christy. "But I will
go to the side of the hurricane deck, and tell him that the engine does
not respond to the bells."

"I should think he might see that for himself," said Percy.

"Don't you say a word, and don't you show yourself to any one. Sit down
on that stool, and keep quiet."

"I will do just what you tell me, Christy, for I believe you will be
able to get me out of this scrape," replied Percy, as he seated himself,
and began to read over the instructions relating to the bells.

In fact, he was so interested in the new occupation he had taken up,
that he soon forgot all about his brother, and the trouble that lay in
his path. He read the paper, and applied his fingers to the pulls in a
great many different ways, supposing all the various situations of the
boat which Christy had suggested.

Christy went to the side of the upper deck, and saw that the soldiers
had hauled in the boat that had been used by the lieutenant and his two
men. It was a large and clumsy affair, big enough to hold a dozen men,
and provided with four oars. But the Leopard was in the trough of the
sea, and it was not an easy matter for the soldiers to handle it; and
just then the major declared that the boat would be smashed against the
side of the tug.

"Major Pierson, this steamer has stopped without any bell from the
pilot-house, and I have been unable to start her again," said Christy,
hailing the commander of the fort.

"All right, Mr. Passford: I told the engineer to stop her," replied
the major, who appeared to be in a hurry, though he could not make the
long-boat work as he desired. "Oblige me by remaining in the pilot-house
for the present, and keep a sharp lookout for the Bellevite."

"Certainly, Major Pierson, if you desire it; but permit me to suggest
that you will not be able to do any thing with that boat while the tug
remains in the trough of the sea," replied Christy, who was more afraid
that the major would not carry out his plan than that he would do so.

"I don't see that it can be helped, though I am no sailor," replied the
commandant, looking up with interest to the acting captain. "For reasons
of my own, which I cannot stop to explain, I don't wish to take this tug
any nearer to the Bellevite; and I am going off in the boat after Dr.
Linscott. But it looks now as though the boat would be smashed in
pieces."

"I should say that it would be," added Christy. "If you will start the
engine again, I think I can help you out of this difficulty."

"How do you expect to do it?" asked the major, who seemed to be
incredulous on the point.

"If you will let me get the tug out of the trough of the sea, you can
easily haul the boat up on the lee side of her," Christy explained. "The
steamer will shelter the water on that side of her."

"Spikeley!" called the major, in a loud voice; and the engineer came out
of his den. "Start her up now."

"Run her at about half speed, major," and the commandant repeated his
direction to the engineer.

Christy retreated to the pilot-house, and threw over the wheel of the
boat; so that, when the screw began to turn, the bow of the tug soon
headed to the southward, which gave her the wind ahead. Then he brought
her so that the water was comparatively smooth on her port quarter,
where the long-boat was.

Without the loss of a moment, the major drove all his men into the boat,
and they shoved off. The men were soldiers, and they had had but little
practice in rowing, having taken it up at the fort. They made rather
bad work of it; but, more by luck than skill, the boat cleared the tug
without being stove.

"Spikeley!" shouted the major.

"Here, sir," replied the engineer, hobbling out of his room.

"Stop the engine, and remember what I told you," added the commandant.

"All right, sir: I will do just as you ordered me."

"What does he want to stop the engine for?" asked Percy. "She don't roll
so badly when the engine is going."

"That is very true; but your brother knows what he is about," replied
Christy, his eyes beginning to light up with an unwonted fire.

"Well, what is he about?"

"He is going to capture the Bellevite."

"He will have a nice time of it!" exclaimed Percy. "That steamer can
blow him out of the water a dozen times before he gets near her."

"I don't believe your brother has any idea that the Bellevite is heavily
armed," added Christy.

"But he has been on board of her."

"That is very true; but the two heavy guns were covered up, and the
others were sent down into the hold. All the soldiers in the boat
with your brother have their muskets; and he would not have taken the
lieutenant and six men with him if he were simply going for the doctor
for Captain Pecklar, as he told me he was."

"I believe Lindley is a fool to think of such a thing as capturing the
Bellevite with eight men," added Percy.

"I don't know what else he can intend to do, but I do know why he don't
take the tug any nearer to the steamer. He don't want my father to know
what has become of me."

"Can't you make some sort of a signal to him, Christy?"

"I can do something better than that."

"What's that?"

"I can show myself to him. But, before I do that, I must know how you
stand, Percy."

"How I stand? You know as much about me as I know about myself. I want
to get on board of the Bellevite, and I am not a bit anxious to fight my
brother's battle for him. I know what he is after, now I think of it."

"Well, what is he after?"

"He is after the Bellevite; and if he can take her, he is sure of a
colonel's commission."

"I should say that he could not do any thing better for the Confederacy
than to present it with the finest steamer in the world. But you are not
with him, you say, Percy."

"I am not. I belong to the Confederacy the same as he does; but I want
to get aboard of the Bellevite, and then I shall have a good chance to
reach Nassau," replied Percy.

Christy had a good deal better opinion of Major Pierson than he had of
his brother in the pilot-house with him; but just then the latter was
able to be more useful to him than the commandant of the fort.

"I can now almost promise that you shall be put on board of the
Bellevite, if I succeed in reaching her myself," said Christy.

"That is all I can expect of you; and I will do whatever you tell me, if
it be to sink the Leopard. But we can't do a thing. The engineer will
not start the engine for us; and I don't see but what we must stay here
till my brother comes back from his errand, whatever it may be."

"I don't feel quite so helpless as that," added Christy, as he took a
revolver from his hip-pocket, where he had carried it all the time since
the steamer left Nassau, and while she was there.

"What are you going to do with that, Christy?" asked Percy, impressed
with the sight of the weapon.

"I am going to start this tug with it, if necessary. Now hear me."

Percy was all attention.




CHAPTER XXIV

THE ENGINEER GOES INTO THE FORECASTLE


The wind from the southward seemed to be increasing in force, though it
was not yet what old salts would call any thing more than half a gale,
and hardly that; but the long-boat from the Leopard made bad weather of
it, and rolled wildly in the trough of the sea. The soldiers pulled
badly, for they had had no training in the use of the oars, and very
little experience.

The boat had made very little progress towards the Bellevite, and
Christy was in no hurry to put his plan in operation. He showed his
revolver to Percy, and then restored it to his hip-pocket. But he
watched the expression of his companion in the pilot-house very closely;
for, as the case then stood, one of them belonged to the blue, while the
other was of the gray. But Percy's patriotism was hardly skin deep, and
he had already spoken freely enough to make himself understood.

"I don't see how you are going to start the tug with that pistol if the
fellow at the engine don't look at it in that light," said Percy, as his
companion restored the weapon to his pocket.

"I don't intend to use it if it can be avoided," replied Christy.
"I shall not ask Spikeley to start the engine, and if he don't interfere
with me, I shall not harm him; for he seems to be a cripple, and it
would hurt my feelings to have to lay hands on him, or even to point a
revolver at his head."

"If Spikeley don't start the engine, I reckon it will not start itself,"
suggested Percy.

"I don't believe it will."

"What are you going to do, then?"

"I am going to start it myself."

"Start it yourself! You will blow the whole thing up!" exclaimed Percy,
who did not see how the same young fellow of sixteen could know how to
steer, and run the engine.

"I have been on board the Bellevite a great deal of the time for the
last three years, and my mother says I was born a sailor, as my father
was before me. I always took a deep interest in every thing connected
with the steamer."

"I should think you might, on board of such a fine vessel as the
Bellevite."

"I have stood my trick at the wheel for weeks together; and the
quartermasters taught me all they knew about steering, the compass,
the log, the lead, and the signals."

"Those things have nothing to do with the engine," suggested Percy.

"That is very true; but, when I had learned enough in the pilot-house,
I went down into the engine and fire rooms. Mr. Vapoor, the chief
engineer, and I were in the same school together; and, though he is six
years older than I am, we have been cronies for four years."

"And he told you about the engine?"

"I made a regular study of the engine, in connection with physics, and
Paul"--

"Paul? That's another fellow?"

"No: it's the same fellow,--Paul Vapoor. Everybody that knows him says
he is a genius. He was my teacher. But he told me that all the theory in
the world would not make me an engineer: I must have the experience; and
for weeks together I took the place of one of the assistant engineers.
That's how I happen to know something about an engine; and I have been
on board of all sorts of steamers with Paul, for the purpose of studying
the engines, from a launch up to the biggest ocean-steamers."

"Did you take any lessons of the cook on board of the Bellevite,
Christy?" asked Percy, laughing.

"I used to ask questions of him; but I have served as cook on board of a
small yacht, and I know how to get up a chowder or bake a pot of beans."

"All right; then I will take it for granted that you can start the
engine of the Leopard," continued Percy, coming back to the topic which
interested him most. "What are you going to do after you have started
the engine?"

"I am going to get on board of the Bellevite, and get you on board of
her."

"That will suit me first rate," replied Percy. "But I don't want you to
think I am a Yankee, for I am not."

"But I want you to think I am a Yankee, as you call it; and I am one,"
added Christy.

"After we get on board of the Bellevite, what do you suppose she will
do?"

"That is more than I can tell you; but I have no doubt my father will
try to get out of the bay, and then he will go to New York. It is about
time to make a beginning, for the boat will not trouble us now," replied
Christy, as he took a look all around the tug.

"What am I to do?"

"I haven't told you all I know about steering the boat for nothing,
Percy, and you will remain at the wheel. But I wonder what that is over
in the north-west," added Christy, as he took the glass from the shelf,
and pointed it out the after window of the pilot-house.

"I think I can steer her all right now. What do you see over there?"

"I believe there is a steamer coming down from that direction," replied
Christy anxiously, as he brought the glass to bear on the object in
sight.

"A steamer!" exclaimed Percy. "That will mix things with us."

"Perhaps it will. It is a steamer, but it looks like a river boat, at
any rate, it is not a tug. She is headed this way."

Christy was a good deal disturbed by the discovery he made; and giving
no further attention to his companion, he continued to study the
approaching craft, at the same time endeavoring to account for her
appearance. His uncle Homer had gone to find some one who was to render
assistance in preventing the Bellevite from leaving the bay, and
becoming a part of the navy of the Union.

He had not succeeded in finding the person he sought, but he had had
abundance of time to go to Mobile; and Christy feared that this steamer
coming down from the north-west might be intended for the capture of the
Bellevite, in which case she must be armed and provided with an ample
force for the purpose.

"That is not a tug-boat: she is a river or a bay steamer, and I am
afraid she is faster than this thing," said Christy, when he had
obtained all the information he could at the present time. "At any rate,
we have no time to spare. Do you think you can steer the Leopard,
Percy?"

"I know I can," replied he confidently.

"The boat with the major in it is losing a good deal by lee-way, for he
seems to be making no allowance for it."

"What does that mean?" asked Percy, puzzled by the statement.

"She has the wind on her beam, and she drifts to the north almost as
much as she goes ahead. He ought to head her for some point to the
southward of the Bellevite; but the more mistakes he makes, the better
it will be for us."

"I see that he don't seem to be headed anywhere in particular."

"Now, Percy, I am going below to have it out with Spikeley," continued
Christy, taking the revolver from his pocket, while he drew a box of
cartridges from another. "The Bellevite drifts as well as the boat; but
they don't let her go far to the north where the shoal water is, and
they turn the screw enough to keep her pretty nearly in the same
position."

"I am to steer for her, of course," added Percy.

"No: there is something that looks like buildings on the shore, at least
five miles beyond the steamer. Do you see them?"

"I do."

"Run for them; and this course will carry you a considerable distance to
the southward of the boat. I shall be near you all the time; and if you
get bothered, sing out for me, and I will help you out."

"Don't you think I had better go below with you, so as to make a sure
thing with the engineer?"

"I can handle him alone; or, if I find that I cannot, I will call for
you. Now, look out very closely for your steering, and don't let her
wobble any more than you can help."

Christy left the pilot-house, after he had put six cartridges into his
revolver, and restored the weapon to his pocket. He had already made up
his mind as to the manner in which he proposed to dispose of the
engineer. He descended the ladder to the forecastle of the tug; but
before he proceeded to the important task before him, he made a careful
survey of the accommodations of the steamer, though she did not appear
to be different from a score of similar vessels he had visited in making
his studies.

Under the pilot-house was the galley, which was also the mess-room of
the crew when she had any. Forward of this, and under the forward deck,
was the forecastle, to which the inquirer descended. It was fitted up
with bunks, and there was only one entrance to it, by a ladder from a
scuttle in the deck.

The scuttle was the interesting point with him; and he saw that it was
provided with a hasp and staple, so that the entrance could be secured
by a padlock, though that was missing. Getting a piece of wood from the
deck, he made a toggle that would fit the staple, and put the scuttle
in a convenient place. Leaving the forward deck, he went aft, taking
another look at the steamer in the north-west; but he could hardly see
her with the naked eye, and he thought she must be at least five miles
off.

"Where is your bunk, Mr. Spikeley?" asked Christy, as he went to the
door of the engine-room.

"What's that to you, youngster?" demanded the engineer; and possibly it
did not comport with his dignity to be bossed by a boy.

"It is rather important for me to know just now," replied Christy,
looking as savage as it was possible for a good-natured boy to look.

"What do you want to know for?" asked Spikeley.

"I happen to be in command of this tug for the present moment, and I
want an answer without stopping all day to talk about it."

"Well, youngster, I don't reckon I'll tell you any thing about it. I get
my orders from Major Pierson," replied the engineer sourly.

"The Leopard is in my charge, and I must ask you to show me where your
bunk is; and after you have done that, I shall ask you to get into it,
and stay there," said Christy, with decision enough for the needs of the
occasion.

At the same time he took the revolver from his pocket, and pointed it
towards the head of the engineer.

"You can take your choice, Mr. Spikeley: you can get into your bunk, or
have your carcass thrown into the bay; and you haven't got a great while
to think of it."

The engineer seemed to be properly impressed by the sight of the weapon,
and he could see that the chambers contained cartridges. He rose from
his seat, and moved towards the door of the engine-room.

"I heard some of the men say you was a Yank, and I reckon you be," said
Spikeley. "What are you go'n to do?"

"I am going to get you into your bunk, where you will be more
comfortable than you are here. Move on!"

The man obeyed; for he was unarmed, and he did not like the looks of the
revolver. Without another word, he moved forward, and descended to the
forecastle. As soon as he was below the deck, Christy closed the
scuttle, and secured it with the toggle.




CHAPTER XXV

THE FIRST LESSON FOR A SAILOR


As the engineer was a cripple, Christy Passford had not expected to have
any difficulty in bringing him to terms; and the result justified his
calculations. The Leopard was now practically in his possession, for
Captain Pecklar was the only person on board, except Percy, who could
give him any trouble; and he was too feeble to do any thing.

Percy seemed to be very busy in the pilot-house, going through imaginary
evolutions at the wheel, and supposing all sorts of orders, and all
kinds of positions in which the tug might be placed. He did not seem
even to observe what his companion was doing, though the engineer had
been driven into the forecastle in plain sight from the window of the
pilot-house.

  [Illustration: "The Engineer Obeyed" (Page 277)]

The long-boat was still struggling through the waves on her way to
the Bellevite, and could hardly have made any worse weather of such a
comparatively mild sea. But she had made some considerable progress, for
the boat was now making a proper allowance for leeway, and the soldiers
were improving in their rowing, possibly under the direction of the
major, who could not help seeing how badly they had been doing.

Christy decided to ascertain more definitely the condition of Captain
Pecklar, for reports in in regard to him were conflicting. He went to
his state-room, and found him in his berth. He certainly looked like a
very sick man, though he appeared to be in no immediate danger, so far
as the new captain of the Leopard was able to judge from his appearance.

"How do you find yourself, Captain Pecklar?" asked Christy in
sympathetic tones; for he really pitied the poor man, far away from
his friends, and apparently on the very brink of the grave.

"I am a great deal better," replied the invalid, looking earnestly into
the face of the young man in front of him.

"I am glad to hear it. Major Pierson has gone in the boat to the
Bellevite for Dr. Linscott, and I am sure he will be able to do
something for you when he comes," added Christy.

"When he comes," repeated Captain Pecklar, with a smile on his thin and
blue lips. "I don't expect to see him at present."

"But the major has gone for him; at least, he told me he should."

"I have no doubt he told you so; but he has not gone for the doctor,
though I may see the surgeon of the steamer in the course of the day,"
replied the captain, turning his gaze upon the floor of his room, as
though his mind troubled him as much as his body.

"If the major has not gone for the doctor, what has he gone for?" asked
Christy.

"I know what he has gone for; and, as you belong on board of that
steamer, I should think you might easily imagine."

"Perhaps I can," added Christy rather vaguely.

"Was it necessary for a major and a lieutenant, with six soldiers, to
go for the doctor, when five at the most could have done it better? But
have they gone?" asked the captain anxiously.

"They have; they started some time ago. They are making bad weather of
it, for they don't know how to handle the boat in a sea," replied
Christy.

"They have gone!" exclaimed Captain Pecklar, getting out of his bunk.
"Then I need not stay in my berth any longer."

Christy looked at him with astonishment when he saw him get out of his
berth without any apparent difficulty; for he certainly looked like a
very sick man, though his appearance had somewhat improved since he left
the pilot-house.

"Do you feel able to get up, captain?" asked he, as the sufferer put on
his coat.

"I was exhausted and worn out by being on duty all night, and I had a
faint turn; but I am subject to them. If you are the son of the man that
owns that steamer, you will be able to understand me," replied the
captain; and his feeble condition seemed to make him somewhat timid.

"I am the son of Captain Passford, who owns the Bellevite," added
Christy.

"I should not have been down here now, if I could have got away; but
they seem to hold on to me, for the reason that I am a pilot of these
waters. I was brought up in the pilot-house of a steamer; and they say I
know the bottom of this bay better than any other man, though I have
been here but two years."

"Then you are not in sympathy with the secession movement?"

"In sympathy with it? I hate the very sound of the word! I will tell you
about it."

"Don't be long about it, for I have an affair on my hands," interposed
Christy, though he was not sorry to have the advice of one who knew
something about the situation in the vicinity.

"Only a minute. Major Pierson sent a glass of brandy to me, and I was
fit to take my place in the pilot-house then, for I felt a great deal
better; in fact, I was as well as usual, and I am now. But I had an idea
what the major was about, and I did not want to take any part in getting
your father's steamer into trouble. That's the whole of it; all I want
is to get on board of her, and get out of this country."

"All right, Captain Pecklar!" exclaimed Christy, delighted at the
frankness of his companion. "The steamer, I mean the tug, is already in
my possession."

"In your possession! What do you mean by that?" asked the captain with a
look of astonishment.

"I have driven the engineer into the forecastle, and fastened him down.
The major's brother is in the pilot-house, and he has learned something
about handling the wheel. I am going to start the boat now; and if I
can do nothing more, I can show myself to my father on board of the
Bellevite."

"I am glad to hear it. I intended to do something, though I hardly knew
what, as soon as I was sure that the major and his men had gone," added
Captain Pecklar. "I can take the wheel now."

"Percy Pierson takes a great deal of interest in his new occupation,
and I think it will be best to let him occupy his mind in that way. He
steered the tug for some time, while I was ascertaining what was going
on in this part of the boat."

"Just as you think best, Mr. Passford."

"Call me Christy, for that will sound more natural to me."

"As you please, Christy. I am competent to run an engine, and did it
once for a couple of years, though the business does not agree with me."

"Very well, Captain Pecklar; then you shall run the engine, and I will
keep the run of what is going on around us," said Christy, as he walked
towards the stern of the tug. "There is a new danger off in the
north-west."

"What's that?" asked the captain.

"There is another steamer coming in this direction, and I suppose she
hails from Mobile. There she is."

Christy was somewhat disturbed to find that the approaching steamer was
overhauling the tug very rapidly. It looked as though she would prove to
be a more important factor in the immediate future than he had supposed.
If he could only get on board of the Bellevite, he was sure that she
could run away from any thing that floated. But there was not another
moment to be lost, and he hastened on deck to have the Leopard started.
He found Percy still engaged with his problems in steering, going
through all the forms as though the boat were actually under way.

"Now you may do it in earnest, Percy," said he. "We are all ready to go
ahead. Strike your gong."

"It will be no use to strike it while you are up here," replied the
pilot, looking at Christy with interest.

"We have not a second to spare; strike your gong, and we will talk about
it afterwards," continued Christy impatiently.

"But I am not a fool, Christy, and I don't"--

"But I do!" interposed the acting captain sharply, as he reached over
and pulled the bell.

"I don't like to have a fellow fool with me when I am in earnest. What
good will it do to ring the bell while you are in the pilot-house,
Christy?"

But before the captain could answer the question, if he intended to do
so, the boat began to shake under the pressure of the engine, and the
tug moved ahead at half speed. Percy was so much astonished that he
could hardly throw over the wheel, and Christy took hold of it himself.

"I don't understand it," said he, as he took hold of the spokes, and
looked ahead to get the course of the boat.

"You will never make a sailor till you mend your ways," added Christy.

"There must be some one in the engine-room," said Percy.

"Of course there is."

"Why didn't you say so, then? I did not suppose the boat could go ahead
while you were up here."

"I told you to ring the gong, didn't I?"

"What was the use of ringing it when you were in the pilot-house?"

"What was the use of ringing it when I did?" demanded Christy, who had
but little patience with this kind of a sailor.

"You knew there was some one in the engine-room."

"But the engine would have started just the same if you had rung the
gong."

"Well, I didn't know it; and if you had only said you had an engineer,
I should have understood it."

"You will never make a sailor, as I said before," added Christy.

"What is the reason I won't?"

"Because you don't obey orders, and that is the first and only business
of a sailor."

"If you had only told me, it would have been all right."

"If the captain, in an emergency, should tell you to port the helm, you
could not obey the order till he had explained why it was given; and by
that time the ship might go to the bottom. I can't trust you with the
wheel if you don't do better than you have; for I have no time to
explain what I am about, and I should not do it if I had."

"It would not have taken over half an hour to tell me there was an
engineer in the engine-room," growled Percy.

"That is not the way to do things on board of a vessel, and I object to
the method. I don't know what there is before us, and I don't mean to
give an order which is not likely to be obeyed till I have explained its
meaning."

"I will do as you say, Christy," said Percy rather doggedly. "Did
Spikeley agree to run the engine?"

"No, he did not; he is locked up in the forecastle. Captain Pecklar is
at the engine; but he is all ready to take the wheel when I say the
word."

"I can keep the wheel, for I think I understand it very well now."

"I did not wish to take you away from the wheel, for I saw that you
liked the work; and I said so to Captain Pecklar. If you have learned
the first lesson a sailor has to get through his head, all right; if
not, Captain Pecklar will take the wheel."

"I understand the case better now, and I will do just what you tell me,"
protested Percy.

"And without asking any questions?"

"I won't ask a question if the whole thing drops from under me."

Percy steered very well, and Christy had enough to do to watch the
steamer astern and the boat ahead.




CHAPTER XXVI

THE POST OF DUTY AND OF DANGER


The long-boat, with the increased experience of its crew, was doing very
well, and it would soon be within hailing-distance of the Bellevite. But
Major Pierson could hardly help discovering that the Leopard was under
way, though he seemed to give his whole attention to the boat and the
steamer ahead of him.

Christy went aft to ascertain the situation of the steamer from the
north-west, and with the glass he satisfied himself that she was not
exactly a river steamer, such as he had seen on the Alabama; or, if she
was, she had been altered to fit her for duty on the bay.

He could see that she had brass guns on her forward deck, and a
considerable force of soldiers or sailors. But she was a nondescript
craft, and he was unable to make her out accurately, though by this time
she was not more than half a mile distant. No immediate danger was to be
apprehended from her, unless she opened fire with the field-pieces on
her deck. As the Leopard was in the service of the forts, she was not
likely to do this till she knew more of the present situation on board
of her.

Christy had made up a new course for the tug when he saw the change
in the working of the long-boat, and the approaching steamer had an
influence in his calculations. He had directed the new pilot to head her
directly for the Bellevite, only taking care to give the long-boat a
sufficiently wide berth to prevent the soldiers from boarding her, and
with steam it would be an easy thing to keep out of its way.

Christy went below to the engine-room to ascertain the condition of
Captain Pecklar. He found him eating his breakfast, which he took from a
basket he had evidently brought with him from the shore the day before.
He seemed to have an appetite; and, from the food he consumed, the
acting captain did not believe he could be in a desperate situation.

"How do you get on, Captain Pecklar?" asked Christy, as he glanced at
the engine, and judged that it was moving more rapidly than at any time
before.

"I am a good deal better, Christy: in fact, the thought of getting out
of this country is almost enough to cure me; for I have come to the
conclusion that I had rather die at home than live here," replied the
captain, as he put an enormous piece of beef into his mouth, which his
companion thought would be almost enough for his breakfast.

"I am glad you are better. How does the engine work?" asked Christy.

"I have been stirring it up, and I just filled up the furnaces. I think
she is doing her best, though that is not saying a great deal. But,
Christy, have you tried to get a look over beyond the Bellevite?"

"No, I haven't seen any thing in that direction," replied Christy,
a little startled by the question.

"I believe there is another steamer over there; and, if there is, it
must be the Dauphine."

"What of her?" asked Christy anxiously.

"She is a steam-yacht of four hundred tons, and the fastest steamer in
these waters. They have been fitting her up for the war, though I don't
know whether she is to be a man-of-war or a blockade-runner."

"What makes you think it is she?"

"Because she has been over to the town you may have seen in that
direction. She is behind the Bellevite, so that you can hardly see her."

"I am inclined to think the Bellevite can take care of herself," replied
Christy.

"Why, the Bellevite cannot do any thing but run away; and Major Pierson
says she will never do that till you have been taken on board of her.
I heard him and Lieutenant Dallberg talk it all over near the door of
my room."

"Perhaps the Bellevite can do something more than run away," added
Christy with a smile.

"What do you mean, my friend?" asked the captain, suspending the
operation of his jaws, he was so interested in the answer to his
question. "The major said distinctly that she was a gentleman's
pleasure-yacht, and that she was not armed."

"The major has a right to his opinion, and I shall not argue the point
against him. My father came into the bay on a peaceful errand, and he
had no intention to be aggressive."

"All right, Christy; I can see through plain glass even when there
isn't a hole in it," said Captain Pecklar, laughing; for he seemed to
be entirely satisfied with the situation, in spite of the fact that two
hostile steamers appeared to menace the Bellevite, which he hoped would
bear him to his home.

"Now, what do you know of the steamer astern of us?" asked Christy.

"That must be the Belle. She is no match for an armed steamer, but she
may do a great deal of mischief. She used to run down the bay in the
summer."

"I will go up to the pilot-house, and see if I can make out the
Dauphine. If she is a sea-going yacht, she is the one we have to fear,"
said Christy, as he left the engine-room.

"See here, Christy; there is another steamer over beyond the Bellevite,
and she is pretty near her, too," said Percy, as he entered the
pilot-house.

The acting captain brought his glass to bear over the Bellevite, and he
was satisfied that the approaching vessel was the yacht described by
Captain Pecklar. But he had hardly got his eye on the Dauphine, before
he saw that the Bellevite had started her screw. It looked as though she
deemed it advisable to change her position in view of the approach of
the steamers on each side of her.

"Where is she going, Christy?" asked Percy.

"I am sure I cannot tell you. You can see all that I can see," replied
Christy, who was very anxious about the situation.

"We are not a great way from the long-boat," suggested Percy, who was
more afraid of that than he was of all the steamers in sight. "What am I
to steer for now? Shall I make her follow the Bellevite?"

"Head her off to the north-east," replied Christy, opening the binnacle.

But he might as well have opened the book of the black art to Percy,
for he could not steer by compass. Christy got the Leopard on her
new course, by which she would come somewhere near intercepting the
Bellevite; and then he found an object on the shore, many miles distant,
for the guidance of the pilot.

But the long-boat was now almost within hailing-distance of the Leopard.
Major Pierson was certainly aware that the tug was under way, and he
made the most energetic demonstrations for her to stop her screw.
Suddenly the Bellevite changed her course again, and run directly
towards the tug.

This movement was apparently noticed by the major; for his men doubled
their efforts at the oars, pulling for the Leopard. The boat was then
out of the trough of the sea, and its progress was much better. Then the
Bellevite changed her course again; and it was impossible to determine
what she intended to do, though possibly she was following a crooked
channel.

"Leopard, ahoy!" shouted Major Pierson; and he was near enough now to be
distinctly heard.

"In the boat!" returned Christy, though he knew the parley could amount
to nothing.

"Stop her!" yelled the major.

"Not yet!" replied the acting captain.

"Stop, or I will fire into you!"

"I'm not going to stand here and be shot down!" exclaimed Percy. "My
brother don't know that I am at the wheel, and I shall be the first one
to get hit."

Christy could not blame Percy for not wishing to be shot by the party
under his brother's command; and he had no more relish for being shot
himself, quite in sight of his father's steamer. But to abandon the helm
was to abandon the control of the tug, and the major could recover
possession of her and of his prisoner within a few minutes.

"Go below, Percy, and put yourself in the fire-room, for you will be
safe there," said Christy.

At that moment the crack of a musket was heard, and a bullet crashed
through the pine boards of the pilot-house. It was the first evidence
of actual war which Christy had seen, and it impressed him strongly.

"It isn't safe for me to show myself," said Percy, as his companion took
the wheel from him.

"You must be your own judge of that," replied Christy, as he dropped
down on the floor, with the compass in his hand.

"What are you going to do down there?" asked Percy.

"I have no wish to be shot any more than you have. I am going to keep
out of sight, and steer the steamer by compass," replied Christy.

"I will steer her if I can keep out of sight," added Percy.

"You can't steer by compass; but you can do something if you are
willing," suggested the pilot.

"I am willing to do all I can; but I don't want my brother to shoot me,
as much for his sake as my own. What shall I do?" asked Percy.

"Crawl out of the pilot-house on the port-side, where they can't see you
from the boat, and then keep watch of all the other steamers. Report to
me just where they all are, and what they are doing."

"All right; I will do that," replied Percy, as he obeyed the order.

The boat continued to fire at the pilot-house of the Leopard, and though
a shot came uncomfortably near Christy, he stuck to his post; for to
leave it was to give up the battle.

"The Bellevite is headed directly towards us," called Percy, outside of
the pilot-house. "The other steamers are just as they were."

"All right; keep your eye on them all the time."

"The Bellevite is headed directly towards us," said Captain Pecklar,
coming to the top of the ladder on the port-side.

"So Percy has just reported to me."

"But you will get killed if you stay here," said the captain, with
genuine solicitude in his looks and manner.

"But I must stay here, all the same," replied Christy, who felt too
proud to desert the post of duty because it happened to be the post of
danger at the same time.

"But let me take your place, Christy," continued Captain Pecklar,
finishing the ascent of the ladder.

"No, no, captain! Don't expose yourself," protested Christy. "It is as
safe for me as it will be for you."

"But I have got about to the end of my chapter of life; and there is not
more than a year, if there is as much as that, left for me. You are a
young fellow, and the pride of your father, I have no doubt; at any
rate, you ought to be. Give me that place, and you will be safer in the
engine-room."

Captain Pecklar insisted for some time, but Christy obstinately refused
to leave his post.

"Men pulling in the boat with all their might!" shouted Percy.

"I think I can bring their labors in that way to an end," added the
captain. "But do you understand what the Bellevite is doing, Christy?"

"She is coming this way; that is all I know."

"She is coming this way because the major has been fool enough to fire
on the Leopard. The shooting assures your father that this tug is an
enemy."

The captain went below again, leaving Christy to consider his last
remark. But he had not been gone five minutes before the report of a
cannon shook the hull of the Leopard, and the pilot saw that it was on
the forecastle of the tug.




CHAPTER XXVII

A CANNON-BALL THROUGH THE LEOPARD


The gun on the forecastle of the Leopard was placed as far aft as
possible, so that Christy could not see it without putting his head out
at the front windows of the pilot-house, and for this reason he had not
seen what Captain Pecklar was about. But the piece must have been loaded
before, for he could not have charged it without being seen.

The captain had remarked that he could bring the labors of those in
the long-boat to an end, for Major Pierson was urging his men to their
utmost with their oars in order to reach the tug. The smoke prevented
Christy from seeing to what extent he had succeeded, though the fact
that he had fired the gun at the boat was all he needed to satisfy him
of the fidelity of the acting engineer to the cause he had just
espoused.

Christy had not deemed it advisable to change the course of the Leopard;
for the long-boat was approaching her at right angles, and he thought
she would get out of its way, for those in charge of it made no
calculation of the distance the tug would run while the boat was
approaching her.

The smoke blew aside in a moment, and Christy discovered that the
long-boat had not been struck by the shot; or, if it had, it had
received no material damage. The major was still urging his men to
increase their efforts, and he seemed to be not at all disconcerted by
the shot which had been fired at him. But Christy saw that he was losing
the game, as he probably would not have done if he had been a sailor,
for his calculations would have been better made.

When the pilot of the Leopard realized that the major was too much
occupied in increasing the speed of the long-boat to continue the firing
at the tug, he had resumed his place at the window; but he kept his eye
on the enemy. He looked out at the window; but he could not see Captain
Pecklar, though he heard him shovelling coal a minute later. The engine
still appeared to be doing its best, and the tug was in a fair way to
pass clear of the long-boat.

"Look out, up there, Christy!" shouted the engineer, a little later.

The pilot turned his attention to the boat again, and saw that the major
and the lieutenant were loading their muskets again, and the two men
not at the oars were doing the same. The commandant evidently began to
feel that he was to miss his prey if he depended upon the oars of the
soldiers, and he was about to turn his attention again to the business
of disabling the pilot of the tug. Christy dropped down on the floor
again, and steered by the compass, which was still where he had placed
it before.

He could hear a rumbling sound on the forward deck, and he was curious
to know what the captain was doing; but it was not prudent to look
out at the window. After a great deal of hard kicking and prying, he
succeeded in removing a narrow board from the front of the pilot-house
near the floor; and through this aperture he could see that the acting
engineer had just finished reloading the gun, and was changing its
position so as to bring it to bear on the long-boat.

The enemy were now a little forward of the beam of the tug, and not more
than fifty yards from her; but Christy was satisfied that the Leopard
would go clear of the long-boat if his craft was not disabled. The major
and his companions could not help seeing that Captain Pecklar had
deserted their cause, and that, with the gun on the deck, he was a
dangerous enemy.

The report of a musket in the direction of the boat caused Christy to
look very anxiously to the forward deck; but to his great satisfaction
he saw that the captain had not been hit. But he immediately retired
under the pilot-house, so that he could not see him. He was brave enough
to stand up and be shot at, but he was also prudent enough not to expose
himself unnecessarily.

Three other shots followed the first, one of the balls passing through
the boards of the pilot-house, above the helmsman's head; and he saw a
splinter fly from a stanchion forward. Captain Pecklar waited for the
fourth shot,--and he had evidently noticed how many men had muskets in
their hands,--then he sprang out from his hiding-place, sighted the gun,
and pulled the lock-string.

Through the aperture he had made, Christy looked with intense interest
to ascertain the effect of this shot. As soon as the smoke blew away,
he saw that the shot had passed obliquely into the boat, striking the
stern-board just behind Major Pierson, and splitting off the plank near
the water-line.

There was a commotion in the ranks of the enemy, and it was plain enough
that the water was flowing into the craft. The soldiers stopped rowing,
and the lieutenant and one of the extra men were sent into the bow. This
change settled the bow of the boat down into the water, and lifted the
stern. The major appeared to be equal to the emergency; he gave his
orders in a loud voice, and the rowing was renewed with the delay of not
more than a couple of minutes. But that was enough to defeat his present
purpose, though he still urged his men to exert themselves to the
utmost.

The long-boat went astern of the tug, and Christy came out from his
place on the floor to the windows. Captain Pecklar was loading the gun,
as he had done before, by swinging it around so that the muzzle was
under the pilot-house.

"I think you will have no further use for that gun," said Christy, when
he saw what the captain was doing.

"Perhaps not; but it is best to have it ready for the next time we want
it. The major kept it loaded all the time, and I shall follow his
example," replied the captain.

"Have you been hit, Percy?" asked Christy, looking out at the side under
which the late pilot had bestowed himself for safe-keeping.

"I have not been hit; they could not see me where I am. Have you been
hit, Christy?" replied Percy.

"Not at all; I took good care not to be seen while they were firing. But
your brother has dropped astern of the Leopard in his boat, and there is
no danger here now: so you can come in and take the helm, if you like."

Percy was glad to have something to do, for he was very nervous; and
he came into the pilot-house. He was not half as airy as he had been
before, and the sound of the muskets and the twelve-pounder on the
forward deck had undoubtedly made an impression upon him. But he was as
glad to take the wheel as Christy was to have him, for he desired to
study the situation after all the changes which had been made in the
position of the several vessels.

"You have had an awful time of it, Christy," said Percy, as he took the
wheel. "I wonder that you have not been killed."

"Not a very awful time of it, and I took good care not to be killed,"
replied Christy. "A fellow isn't good for much after he has been killed,
and it is always best to look out and not get killed; though I suppose
one cannot always help it."

"Did you fire the field-piece on the deck below?"

"No, I did not; that was done by Captain Pecklar."

"My brother will have him hanged when he gets hold of him," added Percy,
shaking his head.

"Very likely he will if he gets hold of him, but we don't intend to let
him get hold of him."

Christy left the pilot-house, and went out on the hurricane deck, where
he could better see all that was to be seen, and be alone with his own
thoughts. His first care was to ascertain the position of his most
active enemy, the long-boat. He could see it a short distance astern of
the tug. It had changed its course, and was following the Leopard, which
was now gaining rapidly upon it.

Directly ahead of the tug was the Bellevite, not more than a quarter
of a mile distant; but while she was going off to the north-west, the
Dauphine had kept more to the southward and was now nearer than the
steamer of Captain Passford.

The remark which Captain Pecklar had made when he came partly upon the
hurricane deck, that the Bellevite had changed her course because Major
Pierson had been fool enough to fire at the tug, came up in Christy's
mind again. He had thought of it at the time it was uttered, and several
times since; but he had not had the time to weigh its meaning.

The owner's son knew very well that every incident connected with the
tug, and with the other vessels in sight, had been carefully observed
and weighed by his father and Captain Breaker. They had seen the boat
leave the Leopard. It looked like a stupid movement to do such a thing,
when the approach to the Bellevite could be made so much more rapidly
and safely in the tug.

There must be a motive for such a singular step. Of course the passage
of the boat had been closely observed, and the starting up of the screw
of the Leopard had been duly noted. As the tug came near the long-boat,
the latter had fired upon it. This must have been seen; and the question
naturally would come up as to why those in the boat fired upon their own
people in the Leopard.

It was not likely that they could answer the question in a satisfactory
manner on board of the Bellevite; but the firing indicated that an
enemy was in possession of the tug. This was enough, in the opinion
of Christy, as it had been in that of Captain Pecklar, to produce the
change in her course.

The firing from both craft since the first demonstration must have
deepened the impression. Those on board of the Leopard must be on the
side of the Union, or the party in the boat would not repeatedly fire
upon them. Christy was satisfied that his father would know what all the
indications meant before he abandoned the investigation.

But the Bellevite did not seem to be making her best speed by a
great deal. With his glass he could see that there was a hand in the
fore-chains heaving the lead; and probably Captain Breaker feared that
the bottom "might be too near the top of the water" for the draught of
his vessel, and he was proceeding with caution.

Christy descended the ladder to the main-deck. He found Captain Pecklar
in the fire-room, shovelling coal into the furnace. He seemed to be
again nearly exhausted by the efforts he had made during the morning;
and Christy took the shovel from him, and did the work himself.

"You must not kill yourself, Captain Pecklar. This is too hard work for
you," said Christy.

"If I can only get out of this scrape, it will not make much difference
what becomes of me," replied the invalid faintly.

"I will do this work myself. Don't you touch that shovel again."

"But things are looking very badly indeed for us, Christy," said the
captain, bracing himself up as if for a renewed effort. "The Belle is
almost up with the boat, and she will take Major Pierson and his party
on board; and she is nearer to us than the Bellevite."

"Is that so? I have not looked astern for some time," replied Christy,
rather startled by the information.

"The Bellevite is not sailing as fast as she has some of the time, and
both the Belle and the Dauphine are nearer to us than she is," added
Captain Pecklar. "I have been trying to get up more steam."

"If my father only knew that I was on board this tug, I should feel more
hope," said Christy.

"Perhaps he suspects you are. He probably sent ashore to obtain
information in regard to you. But we don't know."

Just then a cannon-ball made the splinters fly all around them.

  [Illustration: "I have hit Her" (Page 315)]




CHAPTER XXVIII

THE AMERICAN FLAG AT THE FORE


Christy rushed out of the engine-room followed by Captain Pecklar, to
ascertain what damage had been done to the tug by the shot. A cloud of
smoke rising from the Belle, astern of the Leopard, informed them that
the shot had come from her. It had struck the house on deck, carrying
away the corner of the captain's state-room; but, beyond this, no damage
appeared to be done.

But the tug had broached to, and it was evident that Percy had abandoned
the wheel when the shot struck the vessel; and Christy hastened to the
pilot-house to restore the vessel to her course. But he was closely
followed by the acting engineer. They found the volunteer pilot lying on
the deck, where he had been before when the vessel was fired upon.

"Is that the way you steer the boat, Percy?" said Christy reproachfully,
as he went into the pilot-house, and righted the helm.

"Didn't you hear that cannon-shot that struck her just now?" demanded
Percy, partly raising himself from his recumbent posture.

"Of course I heard it: I am not deaf; and, if I had been, I could have
felt it. I don't believe we shall want you on board of the Bellevite, if
that is the way you do your duty."

"I don't want to be shot by my own people," pleaded Percy. "Has the shot
ruined the vessel?"

"Don't you see that she is going along the same as ever? No harm has
been done to her so far as any further use to us is concerned," replied
Christy. "But, Captain Pecklar, as things are now, we are running right
into the fire."

Christy was more troubled than he had been at any time before; and he
realized that it was necessary to make some change in the course of the
Leopard, though she had the enemy on each side of her.

"It don't look as well as it might," added the captain gloomily.

"The Dauphine is getting altogether too near us, and we are making the
distance between us less every minute," added Christy.

"There comes another shot from the Belle. She means business, and Major
Pierson is certainly directing things on board of her. We can't stand
that any longer. But she wasted her powder that time, and we must do
better than that. What do you intend to do, Christy?"

"I mean to come about, and take a course between the Belle and the
Dauphine: that is the most hopeful thing I can think of," replied
Christy, after another careful survey of the positions of the enemy.

"I think you are right."

"We will come about, then;" and Christy threw over the wheel.

"That will bring our gun where we can use it; and we shall have a better
chance at the Belle than she has at us, for she is larger, and has a
crowd of men on her main deck," added Captain Pecklar, as he went to the
ladder.

"If you are not afraid of those shots, I am not," said Percy, coming
into the pilot-house again; and he was evidently ashamed of himself when
he saw a fellow younger than himself taking no notice of them.

"I don't pretend to like them, or that I am not afraid of them; but I
shall do my duty in spite of them," replied Christy. "I should be
ashamed to meet my father, if I ever see him again, if I gave up the
fight, and allowed myself to be kept as a prisoner."

"I want to get away from here as much as you do; and I will take the
wheel again, if you will let me," continued Percy.

"I don't ask you to expose yourself; but, if you take the helm, you must
stick to it till you are relieved. We have no time to fool with you."

"I will stick to it, Christy."

"Very well, then you shall take it; but if you desert your post again,
I will shoot you the first time I set eyes on you."

"That is rough."

"If you think it is, don't take the helm."

"I will take it, for I had rather be shot by those in the other steamers
than by you."

"I am going below to help Captain Pecklar; but the moment the tug goes
wrong, I shall send a ball from my revolver up into the pilot-house."

"I understand you, and it looks as though we were getting into a hot
place. I will do my duty as well as I know how. Now tell me how I am to
steer."

"Run for that point you see far off to the northward."

Christy went to the main deck forward, where he found Captain Pecklar
getting the field-piece ready for use. The Belle was now quite near on
the one hand, while the Dauphine was hardly farther off on the other
hand. The Bellevite was coming down from the north-east, with the lead
still going in her chains. The immediate danger was to come from the
Belle.

"That won't do!" exclaimed Captain Pecklar, when they had the gun in
position for use.

"What won't do?" asked Christy.

"Didn't you notice that? They are firing rifle-balls from the Belle. One
of them just struck the bulkhead."

"I don't see that we can help ourselves, whether it will do or not."

"The chances are in our favor, however, for the men cannot handle their
rifles to the best advantage while the Belle heaves in the sea," added
the captain. "Don't stand up where they can see you, Christy, but get
down on the deck with that lock-string in your hand. When I give you the
word, pull it as quick as you can," said the captain, as he sighted the
gun, and changed its position several times.

He was a sailor, and the artillery officers at the forts had trained the
men employed on the tugs in handling the pieces put on board of them, to
be used in bringing vessels to. Better than any soldier, he could make
the proper allowance for the motion of the steamer in the sea, which was
becoming heavier.

"Fire!" shouted he, with more voice than he was supposed to have in the
feeble condition of his lungs.

The gunner had loaded the piece himself, and it made a tremendous
report when Christy pulled the lock-string. The Leopard shook under the
concussion of the discharge, and she was completely enveloped in smoke;
so that they could not see whether the Belle had been hit or not. But in
the distance they could hear hoarse shouts in the direction of the
Belle, and they concluded that something had happened in that quarter.

Christy had brought down the glass with him; and he directed it towards
the steamer aimed at as soon as the smoke began to blow out of the way,
though it was some time before he could get a clear view of her.

"By the great Constitution!" exclaimed Captain Pecklar, before Christy
could cover the Belle with his glass. "I have hit her!"

"Where?" asked the other, elated at the intelligence.

"Right on the bow! There is a hole big enough to roll a wheelbarrow
through," replied the captain, greatly excited. "She has stopped her
wheels."

"That's a nice hole!" added Christy, as he got the glass to bear on it,
and his hopes began to rise again. "It is just about big enough for a
small wheelbarrow. But they have gone to work on it, and are putting
mattresses over it."

"That craft is finished for to-day, and we needn't worry any more about
her," said the captain. "She will not get that hole stopped up for an
hour or longer, and I hope this affair will be over before this can be
done. Shall we give them another shot? What do you think, Christy? She
holds still now, and I believe I can hit her every time."

"Decidedly not: she is disabled for the present, and that is all I care
for. We are not in war trim," replied Christy, as he turned his
attention in the direction of the other vessels.

"As I told you, the Dauphine is fast; and she will be down upon us in
less than five minutes more," said Captain Pecklar.

"I wonder that she don't fire upon us," added Christy.

"I doubt if she has any guns on board, though she may have a field-piece
or two."

"The Bellevite is waking up, I think," said Christy.

"She is getting into deeper water."

"But the Dauphine is coming right between the Leopard and the
Bellevite," continued Christy, as he brought the glass to bear upon her,
though she was near enough to be distinctly seen with the naked eye.
"Whether she had any guns or not, she has plenty of men on board; and it
is easy enough to see what she intends to do."

"What do you think she intends to do?" asked the captain.

"Of course she came out here after the Bellevite, as the Belle did also;
but her people have seen what the Leopard has been about for the last
hour, and they intend to dispose of us before they hunt for the bigger
game."

"She may capture the Bellevite after she has finished her business with
us," said the captain, looking very anxious.

"She may, but I don't believe she will. You have proved that you are
all right, Captain Pecklar, and I don't mind telling you now that the
Bellevite is heavily armed. Captain Breaker was a lieutenant in the
navy, and he knows how to handle a ship," replied Christy.

"Then, if we escape the Dauphine, we shall be all right."

"The Dauphine will come down, and throw a few men on board of us;
boarding us, in fact, as we have no force with which to help ourselves,"
added Christy, as he took a small American flag from his pocket.

It had been made by his mother on the late cruise of the steamer, and it
was a sort of talisman with him, which he had often displayed in foreign
lands. He found a pole on the deck, to which he attached the emblem of
his whole country, and displayed it at the bow of the tug. He hoped that
his father or the captain might see it, and recognize it as the one he
had so often seen on board and ashore.

"That's a handsome flag, Christy; and it does me good to see it again,"
said Captain Pecklar, as he took off his hat, and bowed reverently to
it.

"Percy, hard-a-starboard the helm!" shouted Christy to the helmsman.
"Head her for the Belle."

"All right."

"I think we can increase the distance a little between us and the
Dauphine," added Christy.

"That's a good move; for we have been putting ourselves nearer to her
when there was no need of it, as there has not been since the Belle was
disabled."

He had hardly spoken the words before a tremendous cheer came from the
Bellevite, and her fore-rigging appeared to be filled with men. The
cheer was repeated till it had been given at least "three times three."

"What does that mean, Christy?" asked Captain Pecklar.

"It means that my father or some one on board has recognized my flag.
I should have set it before if we had been near enough for them to make
it out. But they have seen it, and I feel sure that all the steamers in
the bay could not capture us now. Look at the Bellevite!"

She seemed suddenly to have taken the bit in her teeth, and she was
rushing forward at a speed which she had not before exhibited. Paul
Vapoor was evidently wide awake.

A little later her port-holes flew open.




CHAPTER XXIX

ON BOARD OF THE BELLEVITE


The crisis was at hand; for the Dauphine was darting in between the
Leopard and the Bellevite, between father and son. On the port rail of
the former, as if ready to leap upon the deck of the tug, were at least
twenty men; and, for the first time, the plan of the enemy became
apparent to Christy Passford.

He hastened to the hurricane deck of the Leopard, where he could see
more clearly; and it was evident to him that the question before them
would be settled within a very few minutes. If he and his companions
fell into the hands of the enemy, nothing less than a severe fight with
the Dauphine, perhaps aided by the Belle, on the part of the Bellevite
could undo the mischief.

Christy was disposed to leave nothing to be undone. Rushing into the
pilot-house, he seized the wheel, and threw it over, determined to
redeem the fate of the tug while he could. Captain Pecklar had crowded
on all the steam he could, and doubtless the boat was doing her very
best. She flew round like a top, careening till her rail was under
water.

"Hard up, Percy!" cried he, while the tug was still whirling. "Those men
will drop on board of us if we don't get out of the Dauphine's way."

"The Bellevite is almost into her," added the volunteer pilot.

Paul Vapoor evidently understood the situation, and must have been
preparing for it for some time, though the shoal-water had prevented the
steamer from taking advantage of his effort. She had suddenly begun to
dart ahead as though she had been an object shot from one of her biggest
guns; and she seemed almost to leap out of the water in her struggle to
come between the Leopard and the Dauphine.

The Bellevite was certainly making two miles to her rival's one in the
race, and it looked as though she would strike her sharp bow into the
broadside of the enemy. She seemed to rely on a vigorous blow with her
stem rather than on her guns; for as yet she had not fired a shot,
though she was fully prepared to do so.

The Leopard came about in double-quick time; and as soon as her keel was
at right angles with that of the Dauphine, Christy righted the helm, and
let her go in the direction of the disabled Belle. She rolled, pitched,
and plunged in the sea, which had been increasing very sensibly within a
short time; but she went ahead at her best speed, and that was all
Christy wanted of her.

The Bellevite was still rushing down upon the Dauphine as though she
intended to annihilate her when the crash came, as come it must within
a minute or two. Christy's heart was in his throat, for he felt that
his own safety depended upon the events of the next two minutes.
A tremendous collision was impending, and thus far the Dauphine had done
nothing to avoid it. Doubtless her commander had gauged the speed of the
Bellevite by what she had been doing in the shoal water, and had not
believed she could overhaul him before he had thrown a force on board of
the Leopard.

"Now, keep her as she is, Percy, and we shall soon know what is going to
happen," said Christy, when the tug had come about so that he could not
readily see the movements of the other steamers.

"We are running right into the Belle," suggested Percy.

"This thing will be settled before we can come within hail of her, and I
don't think she wants any thing more of us at present," replied Christy,
as he left the pilot-house, and hastened aft, where he could get a
better view of the situation.

"There is a row on board of the Dauphine," said Captain Pecklar, who
had come to the stern for the same purpose as Christy. "Those men are
leaping down from the rail."

"What has happened on board of her?" asked Christy.

"Nothing; but the Bellevite is coming into her full tilt, and they know
that the shock will knock all those men overboard; and I think they
don't want to have to stop to pick them up," answered the captain.

At this moment several sharp orders were given on board of the Dauphine,
and her head began to swing around to the northward.

"That's what's the matter!" exclaimed the captain. "They think they
won't wait for the rap the Bellevite is ready to give them."

The helm of the enemy's steamer had been put hard-a-port; and as she
promptly came about, the sharp bow of the Bellevite shot past her
quarter, and she barely escaped the blow. It look as though those on
board of either vessel could have leaped to the deck of the other.

"What is the reason she don't fire upon the Bellevite?" asked Christy,
when he felt that the crisis was past.

"I don't believe she has any guns on board yet, though I don't know,"
replied the captain.

"What is she going to do now, I wonder."

"I think she will come about and try to board the Bellevite now. It
seems to me that if she had any guns on board, she would have opened
fire before this time."

"We must look out, or the Bellevite will run into us," added Christy, as
he went forward to the pilot-house.

"That steamer has come about," said Percy, as he joined him.

"If she had not come about, the Bellevite would have cut through her
starboard quarter," replied Christy. "But we are all right now, and I
think the excitement is about over."

By this time the Bellevite was abreast of the Leopard, and not half a
cable's length from her; but there was no demonstration at all of any
sort on board of her. Her high bulwarks concealed the whole ship's
company; and no one could be seen but the lookouts forward, and a couple
of officers in the rigging of the mainmast.

"Now we will get a little nearer to her," said Christy, as he threw the
wheel over. "She is coming about."

The Bellevite was blowing off steam, and she had reduced her speed as
soon as she went clear of the Dauphine. In a minute more, when she had
come a little nearer to the Leopard, she stopped her screw.

"Tug, ahoy!" shouted some one, in whose voice Christy recognized that of
Captain Breaker.

"On board the Bellevite!" responded Christy.

"Come alongside!" added the commander of the steamer.

"That's just what I was going to do," added Christy to his companion.

"I suppose we are all right now, are we not, Christy?" asked Percy.

"I don't know what will come up next. The Dauphine is still afloat, and
in good condition; and I don't believe she is going to let the Bellevite
off without doing something."

Captain Pecklar was letting off steam also; for he realized that the
battle, so far as the Leopard was concerned, was finished. Christy
steered the tug alongside of the steamer; and when he rang the bell
finally to stop her, after a rope had been heaved on board of her, he
left the engine, with the steam still escaping from the boiler, and the
furnace-door wide open, and went to the pilot-house.

"Hurry up!" shouted Captain Breaker, appearing on the rail of the
Bellevite, at the gangway.

Captain Pecklar looked astern of the tug, and saw that the Dauphine was
rapidly approaching. She had come about, and her captain did not appear
to be satisfied with saving his own vessel from the collision, and
intended to make another movement. But he had gone some distance before
he came about, though he was now rather too near for the comfort of the
Bellevite after she had stopped her screw.

"What shall we do with this tug?" asked Christy, who had some doubts
whether or not he ought to leave the Leopard in condition for further
use by the enemy.

"We have no time to bother with her, and she don't amount to any thing.
Come on board as quick as you can," replied Captain Breaker.

"Go on board, Captain Pecklar," said Christy, pointing to the gangway.
"Come, Percy, your troubles are over for the present."

The captain went up the ladder, followed by Percy, and Christy went
the last; for he felt that he must see his friends through before he
abandoned the Leopard himself. The moment the owner's son showed himself
on the rail, a burst of cheers came from the ship's company, to which he
replied by taking off his cap and bowing.

"I am glad to see you again, Christy," said his father, as he descended
to the deck and found himself in the arms of Captain Passford. "I was
afraid I should have to leave you here, though I did not intend to do
that as long as a plank of the Bellevite remained under me."

Christy found his father a great deal more demonstrative than he had
ever known him to be before, and he fully realized that he had had a
very narrow, and even a wonderful escape since he had been taken by the
enemy.

Captain Breaker did not wait for father and son to finish their
affectionate greetings; but as soon as Christy put his foot on the rail
he directed the line to the tug to be cast off, and the order was given
to start the screw. The Bellevite went ahead again, and the commander
gave out the course for her.

Before Captain Passford was ready to think of any thing except the
joyful meeting with his son, Captain Pecklar suddenly dropped to the
deck as though a bullet from the enemy had finished his career in the
very moment of victory. Christy broke from his father, and hastened to
his assistance. He had fainted again from exhaustion after the efforts
of the day. Dr. Linscott was at his side almost as soon as Christy, and
the sufferer was borne to the cabin, where he was placed in one of the
vacant state-rooms.

"Who is that man, Christy?" asked Captain Passford, as soon as the
invalid had been cared for.

"That is Captain Pecklar; and he is a Union man, though he has been
in charge of that tug in the service of the forts. But he is in
consumption, and he does not believe he can live much longer. He says he
would rather die at home than live down here," replied Christy.

"He looks like a sick man," added the owner.

"He is, and he has worked altogether beyond his strength. But I believe
I should not have been here, father, at this moment, if he had not
worked with me, and acted with the utmost courage and devotion."

"Then he shall want for nothing while he is on board of the Bellevite."

"But I am sure that the doctor can improve his condition; at least,
I hope he can."

"He can if any one can. But how happens Percy to be with you in the
tug?" asked Captain Passford, as he looked about him for the young man,
who was standing near the mainmast, watching the approaching smoke-stack
of the Dauphine.

"Percy has not been as reliable as Captain Pecklar; but he has done
well, and has rendered good service. He has steered the tug for some
time," replied Christy, calling to him the subject of the last remarks.

"I am glad to see you again, Mr. Percy," said the owner, giving him his
hand. "I am under obligations to you for all you have done to assist my
son on board of that tug."

"I was at work too for myself," said Percy, taking the offered hand,
"I don't belong on this side of the question, and all I want is to get
back to Nassau. I have nothing to expect from my brother, Major Pierson,
and my mother cannot protect me."

"In consideration of the service you have rendered to my son, I shall be
glad to do all I can to assist you in getting there."

"Thank you, sir."

"But where is Florry, father?" asked Christy, looking about the deck.

"I could not allow her to be on deck when a shot was liable to come on
board. She is in the cabin, and she will be as glad to see you as I have
been," replied Captain Passford.

Christy hastened to the cabin.




CHAPTER XXX

RUNNING THE GANTLET


Captain Passford and Percy soon followed Christy into the cabin, and
the meeting of the brother and sister was quite as affectionate as
that between father and son had been. In fact, none of them cared now
for the steamers of the enemy, or for any thing else, except to get out
of Mobile Bay. Christy told his story; and he learned that his father
had sent a party ashore the night before to look for him, though they
had been unable to obtain the slightest information in regard to him.

Captain Breaker insisted that Christy was on board of the Leopard,
though not till the soldiers in the long-boat had fired into the tug.
The father believed that his son would not tamely submit to being made a
prisoner, and the act of Major Pierson had almost convinced him that the
commander was right. He had not been fully satisfied on this point till
he recognized the silk American flag at the fore of the tug.

But Captain Passford was too much interested in the situation on deck
to remain long in the cabin, and he left Christy there with Florry, who
seemed to be supremely happy, now that the family was in a fair way to
be re-united at no distant day.

"I think you know the gentleman who has made all this trouble for me,
Florry," said Christy, when he and Percy were alone with her.

"How can I know him?" asked the fair girl, puzzled.

"He is my brother, Major Pierson; and they say he used to call at
Colonel Passford's once in a while, while I was away at school,"
interposed Percy.

"Then I do know him," replied Florry, blushing.

"Father thought, or at least he feared, that you might not like to leave
the South," added Christy.

"Did he say so?" asked the fair maiden, laughing.

"He did not say a word, but I could tell by his looks."

"Then papa was very much mistaken. Major Pierson was very kind and
polite to me, and I think he is a gentleman; but I have had no desire
to remain at Glenfield on his account."

Florry spoke as though she intended this remark to be the end of the
conversation on that subject, and Christy felt quite sure that she was
not deeply interested in the commander of Fort Gaines.

"Now, I wonder if I can't go on deck," continued Florry, breaking away
from the disagreeable conversation. "They are not firing now."

"I don't know, but I will go on deck and ask father if you wish."

"Do, Christy, if you please."

The Bellevite was shaking in all her frame; for Paul Vapoor was again
exercising his skill upon the screw, and she was flying through the
water. The Dauphine seemed to be struggling to get up an equal degree of
speed; but, fast as she was said to be, the Bellevite was running away
from her. There was no excitement on deck, and Christy readily obtained
the required permission for his sister.

Captain Pecklar, under the skillful treatment of Dr. Linscott, had
improved a great deal, though he still remained in his bed. He declared
that he felt like a new man; and, whether he lived or died, he was as
happy as any man ought to be on the face of the earth.

"That steamer off to the north-west has set her ensign with the union
down, though I can't make out what the flag is," said Captain Breaker,
addressing the owner, as Christy came on deck.

"What does that mean?" asked Captain Passford, getting upon the rail
with the commander.

"I am sure I don't know. I suppose it is a signal of distress, but it
may be a trick of some sort," added Captain Breaker.

"Do you know any thing about that steamer over there, Christy?" asked
the owner, calling his son.

"That is the Belle, and I believe she came from Mobile," replied
Christy.

"What is she out here for?"

"I have no doubt she came out here to capture the Bellevite. Uncle Homer
must have sent word to some one in Mobile, judging from what I heard
Major Pierson say; and probably that steamer came out here to prevent
the Bellevite from going into the navy of the Union."

"But why does she hoist a signal of distress?"

"I think it is very likely she is in distress."

"She is firing a gun," added Captain Breaker, as a cloud of smoke rose
from the Belle.

"Why do you think she is in distress, Christy?" asked his father.

"She opened fire on the Leopard, after she had picked up the boat
containing Major Pierson's party, and Captain Pecklar and I gave her
a shot in return, which went through her bow and made a big hole. She
stopped her wheels then, and since that she has been out of the fight."

"The Dauphine is coming about," added Christy, as he joined the
commander and his father on the rail.

"The Dauphine?" queried Captain Passford.

"That is her name. Captain Pecklar can tell you something about her. He
says she is fitting up for the Confederate navy, but he thinks she has
no guns on board yet."

"It is beginning to blow very fresh," said Captain Breaker, as he took a
look at the sky and the waters of the bay. "My barometer indicates nasty
weather."

"There is too much sea, at any rate, for a steamer with a big hole in
her bow," said Captain Passford.

Christy told all he knew about the Belle, and the owner declared that
he had no desire to see the large number of men on board of her drowned
before his eyes. The gun the disabled steamer had fired was regarded as
another signal of distress, which indicated that the situation was
becoming urgent with her.

"She has hoisted a white flag," added Captain Breaker; and no glass was
needed to disclose the fact that a panic existed on board of her, for
men who could fight bravely for a cause they deemed right might not be
willing to be drowned without being able to lift a finger to save
themselves.

"Come about, Breaker, and run for the disabled steamer," said Captain
Passford, in a decided tone; and the order was instantly obeyed.

The commander sent Christy to the chief engineer to have him increase
the speed of the steamer, at the suggestion of the owner. Paul had not
seen him before, and the two friends hugged each other like a couple of
girls when they came together. But the chief did not lose a moment in
obeying the order brought to him. In a few minutes the Bellevite passed
the Dauphine, and readied the vicinity of the Belle, which was evidently
sinking, for she had settled a good deal in the water.

Four boats were instantly lowered into the water; and Christy was
assigned to the command of one of them, while the first and second
officers and the boatswain went in charge of the others. These boats
were skilfully handled, and they dashed boldly up to the sinking craft.
The soldiers on board of her were more afraid of water than they were of
fire, and the four boats were soon loaded.

"Is that you, Christy?" said one of his passengers.

Christy looked, and saw that the person who addressed him was his uncle
Homer.

"Yes, sir," replied the nephew; but he did not venture to say any thing
more.

"I was not aware that you were taking an active part in this affair till
Major Pierson told me that you had taken possession of his steam-tug,
and that it was you who had fired the shot which disabled the Belle,"
continued Colonel Passford, evidently very much troubled and annoyed.

"I was made a prisoner by the major, and I have done what I could to
get out of his hands," replied Christy. "I suppose you came out in this
steamer for the purpose of capturing the Bellevite; but you have not
done it yet, and I don't believe you will."

"I should like to see your father," added the colonel.

"We are ordered to put these people on board of the Dauphine, and she
has just stopped her screw. I cannot disobey my orders, uncle Homer."

But Christy did not like to prolong the conversation, and he told his
men to give way. The sea had certainly increased till it made it lively
for the boats, and the colonel said no more. The passengers were put on
board of the Dauphine, and it was not necessary for more than two of the
boats to return to the Belle for the rest of the men on board of her.
Colonel Passford insisted upon boarding the Bellevite, after the others
had left the boat, and Christy yielded the point.

The Confederate brother was received by the Union brother as though
nothing had occurred to divide them. He was conducted to the cabin, as
it had just begun to rain, where he was greeted as kindly by Florry.

"I am sorry you left me in such an abrupt manner, Horatio," said Homer,
very much embarrassed. "I think you took a rather unfair advantage of
the circumstances."

"Unfair? What? When you said outright that you intended to take steps
for the capture of my steamer, the only means of reaching my family, and
conveying my daughter to her home, that were within my reach. I came
here on a peaceful mission, and I think the unfairness was all on the
other side," replied Horatio.

"I still believe that I had no moral right, before God and my
countrymen, to allow you to hand this fine steamer over to the Yankee
navy: but I was on board of the Belle for the purpose of seeing that no
harm came to you, or any member of your family," said Homer with deep
feeling.

"Then I thank you for your good intentions. But I believed, before God
and my countrymen North and South, that I bad no moral right to let this
vessel be taken for the use of the Confederacy, and I would have burned
her on the waters of Mobile Bay before I would have given her up," added
Horatio, quite as earnestly as the other had spoken.

"Fortune has favored you this time, Horatio; but when you are suffering
and in want from the effects of this war, remember that I shall always
have a brother's heart in my bosom, and that it will always be open to
you and yours."

"I heartily reciprocate this fraternal sentiment, and I am confident
that you will need my assistance before I need yours: but all that I
have and all that I am shall be at your service, Homer."

"I am glad that we understand each other, and I rejoice that I came on
board of your steamer for these parting words. I will not ask you what
you are going to do next, for you would not tell me; but I shall expect
to hear that the Bellevite has been sunk in attempting to pass the
forts."

"Better that than in the service of the enemies of my country, Homer."

They parted with tears in the eyes of both, and never before had they
realized how stern and severe was the mandate of duty. Christy conveyed
his uncle back to the Dauphine, shook hands with him, and returned to
the Bellevite.

The mission of the steamer in Mobile Bay ended, and she had nothing more
to do but return to her native waters, though perhaps this would prove
to be the most difficult part of the entire enterprise. The steamer
stood down the bay in the drenching rain, and was soon buried in a dense
fog that was blown in by the wind from the gulf. She lay off and on
during the rest of the day, and the commander made his preparations for
running the gantlet of the forts.

This was not so difficult and dangerous an enterprise as it became later
when the channel was obstructed, though even now the feat could not be
accomplished without great difficulty and danger. In the course of the
day, Captain Pecklar left his berth and came on deck. Captain Breaker
decided to leave the piloting of the steamer to him, after he had
conversed for hours with him.

No better night in the whole year could have been selected for the
undertaking. It had ceased to rain, but the darkness and the fog were
as dense as possible. The pilot manifested entire confidence, as he had
plenty of water in the channel, and he knew all about the currents, the
tide, and the action of the wind. It was an exciting time, when every
light on board was extinguished, and the steamer started down the bay
with Captain Pecklar and two quartermasters at the wheel.

After the Bellevite had passed the dangerous part of the channel, firing
was heard from Fort Morgan; but the vessel was soon in the Gulf of
Mexico. Heavy guns were heard for some time, but all on board of the
steamer could afford to laugh at them. The ship continued on her course,
and among the islands near Nassau Percy Pierson was put on board of a
schooner bound to New Providence.

In eight days from the time she passed the forts, the Bellevite steamed
into New York Bay, and then to Bonnydale on the Hudson, where the family
were again re-united, and the fond mother wept over her two children,
restored to her after all the dangers of the past.

On his arrival, Captain Passford found letters for him from the
Government, and the offer of the Bellevite had been promptly accepted.
After having been Taken by the Enemy, on the next voyage Christy found
himself Within the Enemy's Lines.




_OLIVER OPTIC'S BOOKS._

YOUNG AMERICA ABROAD

SECOND SERIES.

A Library of Travel and Adventure in Foreign Lands. 16mo.
Illustrated by Nast, Stevens, Perkins, and others.
Per volume, $1.25.

1. UP THE BALTIC;
      Or, Young America in Norway, Sweden, and Denmark.

2. NORTHERN LANDS;
      Or, Young America in Russia and Prussia.

3. CROSS AND CRESCENT;
      Or, Young America in Turkey and Greece.

4. SUNNY SHORES;
      Or, Young America in Italy and Austria.

5. VINE AND OLIVE;
      Or, Young America in Spain and Portugal.

6. ISLES OF THE SEA;
      Or, Young America Homeward Bound.

  "Oliver Optic" is a _nom de plume_ that is known and loved by
  almost every boy of intelligence in the land. We have seen a highly
  intellectual and world-weary man, a cynic whose heart was somewhat
  imbittered by its large experience of human nature, take up one of
  Oliver Optic's books and read it at a sitting, neglecting his work
  in yielding to the fascination of the pages. When a mature and
  exceedingly well-informed mind, long despoiled of all its freshness,
  can thus find pleasure in a book for boys, no additional words of
  recommendation are needed.--_Sunday Times._


_OLIVER OPTIC'S BOOKS._

FAMOUS "BOAT-CLUB" SERIES,

Library for Young People. Six volumes, handsomely illustrated.
Per volume, $1.25.

1. THE BOAT CLUB;
      Or, The Bonkers of Rippleton.
2. ALL ABOARD;
      Or, Life on the Lake.
3. NOW OR NEVER;
      Or, The Adventures of Bobby Bright.
4. TRY AGAIN;
      Or, The Trials and Triumphs of Harry West.
5. POOR AND PROUD;
      Or, The Fortunes of Katy Redburn.
6. LITTLE BY LITTLE;
      Or, The Cruise of the Flyaway.

  This is the first series of books written for the young by "Oliver
  Optic." It laid the foundation for his fame as the first of authors
  in which the young delight, and gained for him the title of the
  Prince of Story-Tellers. The six books are varied in incident and
  plot, but all are entertaining and original.


_OLIVER OPTIC'S BOOKS._

ARMY AND NAVY STORIES.

Six Volumes. Illustrated. Per vol., $1.25.

1. THE SOLDIER BOY;
      Or, Tom Somers In the Army.

2. THE SAILOR BOY;
      Or, Jack Somers in the Navy.

3. THE YOUNG LIEUTENANT;
      Or, Adventures of an Army Officer.

4. THE YANKEE MIDDY;
      Or, Adventures of a Navy Officer.

5. FIGHTING JOE;
      Or, The Fortunes of a Staff Officer.

6. BRAVE OLD SALT;
      Or, Life on the Quarter-Deck.

  This series of six volumes recounts the adventures of two brothers,
  Tom and Jack Somers, one in the army, the other in the navy, in
  the great civil war. The romantic narratives of the fortunes and
  exploits of the brothers are thrilling in the extreme. Historical
  accuracy in the recital of the great events of that period is
  strictly followed, and the result is not only a library of
  entertaining volumes, but also the best history of the civil war
  for young people ever written.


_OLIVER OPTIC'S BOOKS._

YOUNG AMERICA ABROAD.

FIRST SERIES.

A Library of Travel and Adventure in Foreign Lands. 16mo.
Illustrated by Nast, Stevens, Perkins, and others.
Per volume, $1.25.

1. OUTWARD BOUND;
      Or, Young America Afloat.
2. SHAMROCK AND THISTLE;
      Or, Young America in Ireland and Scotland.
3. RED CROSS;
      Or, Young America in England and Wales.
4. DIKES AND DITCHES;
      Or, Young America in Holland and Belgium.
5. PALACE AND COTTAGE;
      Or, Young America in France and Switzerland.
6. DOWN THE RHINE;
      Or, Young America in Germany.

  The story from its inception and through the twelve volumes (see
  _Second Series_), is a bewitching one, while the information
  imparted, concerning the countries of Europe and the isles of the
  sea, is not only correct in every particular, but is told in a
  captivating style. "Oliver Optic" will continue to be the boy's
  friend, and his pleasant books will continue to be read by thousands
  of American boys. What a fine holiday present either or both series
  of "Young America Abroad" would be for a young friend! It would make
  a little library highly prized by the recipient, and would not be an
  expensive one.--_Providence Press._


_OLIVER OPTIC'S BOOKS._

ALL-OVER-THE-WORLD LIBRARY

Illustrated Per Volume $1.25

FIRST SERIES

A MISSING MILLION or The Adventures of Louis Belgrave
  A MILLIONAIRE AT SIXTEEN or The Cruise of the Guardian mother
    A YOUNG KNIGHT ERRANT or Cruising in the West Indies
      STRANGE SIGHTS ABROAD or A Voyage In European Waters

SECOND SERIES

THE AMERICAN BOYS AFLOAT or Cruising In the Orient
  THE YOUNG NAVIGATORS or The Foreign Cruise of the Maud
    UP AND DOWN THE NILE or Young Adventurers in Africa
      ASIATIC BREEZES or Students on the Wing (in press)

  The bare announcement of a new series of books by Oliver Optic will
  delight boys all over the country. When they farther learn that
  their favorite author proposes to 'personally conduct' his army of
  readers on a grand tour of the world, there will be a terrible
  scramble for excursion tickets--that is, the opening volume of the
  'Globe Trotting Series.' Of one thing the boys may be dead sure, it
  will be no tame, humdrum journey, for Oliver Optic does not believe
  that fun and excitement are injurious to boys, but, on the contrary,
  if of the right kind he thinks it does them good. Louis Belgrave
  is a fortunate lad, because, at the age of sixteen, he was the
  possessor of a cool million of dollars. No one, not even a young
  boy, can travel without money, as our author well knows, therefore
  he at once provided a liberal supply. Louis is a fine young fellow
  with good principles and honor, so he can be trusted to spend his
  million wisely. But he does not have entirely smooth sailing. In the
  first place he has a rascally step-father whom he had to subjugate,
  a dear mother to protect and care for, and the missing million to
  find before he could commence his delightful travels. They are all
  accomplished at last, and there was plenty of excitement and brave
  exploits in the doing of them, as the boy readers will find. The
  cover design shows many things--a globe, the Eiffel tower,
  mountains, seas, rivers, castles and other things Louis will see
  on his travels.--_Current Review._

LEE AND SHEPARD Publishers Boston


_OLIVER OPTIC'S BOOKS._

THE BLUE and THE GRAY

Illustrated. With Emblematic Dies. Each volume bound in Blue and Gray.
Per volume, $1.50.

AFLOAT

  TAKEN BY THE ENEMY
  WITHIN THE ENEMY'S LINES
  A VICTORIOUS UNION
  ON THE BLOCKADE
  STAND BY THE UNION
  FIGHTING FOR THE RIGHT

ON LAND

  BROTHER AGAINST BROTHER
  IN THE SADDLE
  A LIEUTENANT AT EIGHTEEN

_Other volumes in preparation_

  The opening of a new series of books from the pen of Oliver Optic is
  bound to arouse the highest anticipation in the minds of boy and
  girl readers. There never has been a more interesting writer in the
  field of juvenile literature than Mr. W. T. Adams, who under his
  well-known pseudonym, is known and admired by every boy and girl
  in the country, and by thousands who have long since passed the
  boundaries of youth, yet who remember with pleasure the genial,
  interesting pen that did so much to interest, instruct and entertain
  their younger years. The present volume opens "The Blue and the Gray
  Series," a title that is sufficiently indicative of the nature and
  spirit of the series, of which the first volume is now presented,
  while the name of Oliver Optic is sufficient warrant of the
  absorbing style of narrative. "Taken by the Enemy," the first book
  of the series, is as bright and entertaining as any work that Mr.
  Adams has yet put forth, and will be as eagerly perused as any that
  has borne his name. It would not be fair to the prospective reader
  to deprive him of the zest which comes from the unexpected, by
  entering Into a synopsis of the story. A word, however, should be
  said in regard to the beauty and appropriateness of the binding,
  which makes it a most attractive volume.--_Boston Budget._

  "Taken by the Enemy" has just come from the press, an announcement
  that cannot but appeal to every healthy boy from ten to fifteen
  years of age in the country. "No writer of the present day," says
  the Boston _Commonwealth_, "whose aim has been to hit the boyish
  heart, has been as successful as Oliver Optic. There is a period in
  the life of every youth, just about the time that he is collecting
  postage-stamps, and before his legs are long enough for a bicycle,
  when he has the Oliver Optic fever. He catches it by reading a few
  stray pages somewhere, and then there is nothing for it but to let
  the matter take its course. Belief comes only when the last page of
  the last book is read: and then there are relapses whenever a new
  book appears until one is safely on through the teens."--_Literary
  News._

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *

Errata Noted by Transcriber:

Invisible punctuation-- chiefly quotation marks-- has been silently
supplied.

for he intended to drive the vessel
  _text reads "to to drive"_
any unnecessary strategetical / falsehood
  _so in original_
and observed his conduct on board of the Bellevite
  _text reads "an board"_
"De Lo'd!" exclaimed the venerable colored man
  _text reads "De L'od"_
"Shoot me!" exclaimed Percy,
  _text reads "exclaimed, Percy,"_
"You will not be lost as long as I know where you are,"
  _text reads "where your are"_
[Illustration: "I have hit Her" (Page 315)]
  _capitalization as in original_
What do you intend to do, Christy?"
  _text has period for question mark_
that is the most hopeful thing I can think of,"
  _text reads "think off"_
no additional words of recommendation are needed
  _text reads "recomendation"_
The bare announcement of a new series
  _text begins with open quote_





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Taken by the Enemy, by Oliver Optic

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK TAKEN BY THE ENEMY ***

***** This file should be named 18579.txt or 18579.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/1/8/5/7/18579/

Produced by Louise Hope, David Garcia, Juliet Sutherland
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Kentuckiana Digital
Library)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

Produced by Louise Hope, David Garcia, Juliet Sutherland
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Kentuckiana Digital Libra






The Blue and the Gray Series

  TAKEN BY THE ENEMY
  WITHIN THE ENEMY'S LINES
  ON THE BLOCKADE  In Press

Lee and Shepard  Publishers  Boston




  [Illustration:
  "He saw Two Men making their way through the Grove."--Page 28.]




                      The

               BLUE AND THE GRAY

                     Series

                 [Illustration]

                By Oliver Optic

            WITHIN THE ENEMY'S LINES




         _The Blue and the Gray Series_

            WITHIN THE ENEMY'S LINES

                       by
                  OLIVER OPTIC

                   Author of
"The Army and Navy Series," "Young America Abroad,"
"The Great Western Series," "The Woodville Stories,"
"The Starry Flag Series," "The Boat Club Stories,"
"The Onward and Upward Series," "The Yacht-Club Series,"
"The Lake Shore Series," "The Riverdale Series,"
"The Boat-Builder Series," "Taken by the Enemy," etc.




                  BOSTON 1890
           Lee and Shepard Publishers
10 Milk Street Next "The Old South Meeting House"

         NEW YORK  Chas. T. Dillingham
              718 and 720 Broadway




                Copyright, 1889,
               by Lee and Shepard
             _All rights reserved._

           WITHIN THE ENEMY'S LINES.




                A MON JEUNE AMI,
(que je n'ai jamais vu, et que je ne connais pas,)

             Monsieur Lucien Bing,
               de Paris, France,

    En Reconnaissance de la Bont de son Pre,
Cette Historiette de la Guerre Civile en Amerique
           Est affectueusement Ddi.




PREFACE


"WITHIN THE ENEMY'S LINES" is the second volume of "The Blue and the
Gray Series." Like its predecessor, of course, its scenes are connected
with the war of the Rebellion; and perhaps the writer ought to be
thankful that he is not required in such a work to rise to the dignity
of history, but he believes that all his events were possible, and that
every one of them has had its parallel in the actual occurrences of the
historic period of which he writes. In fact, some of the experiences of
the actors in the terrible drama of a quarter of a century ago would
pass more readily for fiction than for reality, and detailed on the
pages of a story would be deemed impossible by the conservative reader.

The nation has passed out of its ordeal of fire, and an excellent spirit
on the part of both parties to the great strife is still growing and
strengthening, in spite of an occasional exhibition of folly on both
sides on the part of those who have not outlived the bitterness of the
past, and who probably will not outlive it. The time will certainly come
when the memories of the conflict, the repetition of the stories of the
war, and even the partisan praise bestowed upon the heroes of both
sides, will excite no more ill feeling than does an allusion to the
War of the Roses in England.

In this country the advocate of either side will tell his story, relate
his history, and jingle his verse in his own way, and from his own
standpoint. Those upon the other side will be magnanimous enough to
tolerate him, at least in silence. Histories, romances, poems, and plays
relating to the war, are produced in greater numbers as the gap between
the days of battle and the days of peace widens; but the old fires are
not rekindled, the old bitterness still slumbers, and the Great United
Nation still lives on in perfect peace.

The author hopes he has done nothing on these pages to impair the
growing harmony between the two sections which have happily become
one, or to impregnate the minds of those who have been born since the
strife ended with any of its bitterness. He has endeavored to make
as high-toned men on the one side as the other, with the same moral
sentiment in the one party as the other, and to exhibit their only
difference in the one great question of Union or Disunion.

  Dorchester, May 2, 1889.




CONTENTS

                                              Page
CHAPTER I.
An Unexpected Visitor                           15

CHAPTER II.
A Difference of Opinion                         27

CHAPTER III.
The dignified Naval Officer                     37

CHAPTER IV.
Corny Passford plays Another Part               48

CHAPTER V.
Captain Carboneer and his Party                 59

CHAPTER VI.
The Cabin of the Florence                       70

CHAPTER VII.
Midshipman Christy Passford                     81

CHAPTER VIII.
Arranging the Signals                           92

CHAPTER IX.
The Approach of the Vampire                    103

CHAPTER X.
A Shot from the Long Gun                       114

CHAPTER XI.
The Battle alongside the Bellevite             125

CHAPTER XII.
The Prisoner of War                            136

CHAPTER XIII.
After the Battle                               146

CHAPTER XIV.
The Beginning of a Chase                       157

CHAPTER XV.
A Chase off the Bermudas                       168

CHAPTER XVI.
The Confederate Steamer Yazoo                  179

CHAPTER XVII.
A Satisfactory Order                           190

CHAPTER XVIII.
Lieutenant Passford in Command                 201

CHAPTER XIX.
Some Trouble on Board the Teaser               212

CHAPTER XX.
Coming to the Point                            223

CHAPTER XXI.
On a Dark and Foggy Night                      234

CHAPTER XXII.
A Variety of Night Signals                     245

CHAPTER XXIII.
Another Night Expedition                       256

CHAPTER XXIV.
Lieutenant Passford on a Mission               206

CHAPTER XXV.
Christy becomes a Victim                       278

CHAPTER XXVI.
The Action on the Deck of the Teaser           289

CHAPTER XXVII.
A Visit from Colonel Homer Passford            300

CHAPTER XXVIII.
An Enterprise for a Dark Night                 311

CHAPTER XXIX.
The New Mate of the Cotton Schooner            322

CHAPTER XXX.
The Prize-Master of the Judith                 333




WITHIN THE ENEMY'S LINES




CHAPTER I

AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR


"Cornelius!" exclaimed Captain Passford, as a young man of nineteen was
shown into the library of the magnificent dwelling of the millionnaire
at Bonnydale, on the Hudson.

"Cornelius Passford, Uncle Horatio," replied the young man, as the
captain rushed to him and extended his hand.

"I think there can be no mistake about it; and I should have been no
more surprised if Mr. Jefferson Davis had been ushered into my library
at this moment," continued Captain Passford, still retaining the hand of
his nephew. "I understood that you were a soldier in the Confederate
army."

"I was a soldier; but I am not one just now," replied the visitor, with
some embarrassment in his manner, though the circumstances were strange
enough to account for it.

"How are your father and mother and Miss Gerty, Corny?" asked the uncle
of the visitor, giving the young man the name by which he was generally
called both at home and in the family of his uncle.

"They were all very well when I left them," replied Corny, looking on
the floor, as though he was not altogether satisfied with himself.

"Of course, you brought letters from your father and Gerty?"

"No, sir; I brought no letters," replied Corny, and, more than before,
he looked as though he was not enjoying his present visit.

"No letters!" exclaimed Captain Passford, evidently surprised beyond
measure at the apparent want of kindly feeling on the part of members
of his brother's family in the South.

"Not a letter, Uncle Horatio," answered Corny, bracing himself up, as
though he realized that he was not presenting a demeanor such as he
thought the occasion required of him.

"This is very strange," added Captain Passford, with a cloud playing on
his fine features.

"It is war between the North and the South, Uncle Horatio, and I suppose
my father did not feel like writing any letters. Gerty never writes any
letters if she can help it," Corny explained.

"But Gerty used to write to Florry about once a week."

"Did she? I didn't know it. She never would write to me when I was
away from home," said Corny, who seemed to be very anxious not to say
anything that was not consistent with the present situation, whatever
it was.

"When I parted with my brother on board of the Bellevite, both of us
shed tears as we realized that war made enemies of us; but each of us
promised to do all he could for the other in case of need. I am very
sure that there was not the slightest unkind feeling between us. Of
course, I did not expect him to write me the war news, but I think he
could have written a few lines without any allusion to the war," said
Captain Passford, pained at this want of filial affection on the part
of his brother.

At that moment the bell for tea rang, and the captain invited his nephew
to the table with him. The host was saddened by the absence of news from
his brother, of any kindly expression from one who was of the same blood
as himself. He was not quite satisfied with Corny's manner, or with the
little he seemed to be willing to say about the rest of the family. It
was certainly very strange that the young man should be there at all,
and his awkwardness and confusion made the visit seem still more
singular.

It was possible that the young man had just arrived and was fatigued
by the trials and perils of his trip, for he must have come by some
roundabout way; and very likely he felt nervous and uneasy in the midst
of people who were loyal to the government and the Union. Captain
Passford decided to say nothing more to his nephew at present as to
the occasion and the manner of his visit to Bonnydale, and during the
evening meal he avoided all allusion to the war, so far as it was
possible to do so. Mrs. Passford and Florry received him very kindly,
but following the example of the head of the family, they spoke only of
domestic affairs, and of the relations of the two families as they had
been before the war.

Between the brothers Homer and Horatio Passford, even from their early
boyhood, a remarkably strong fraternal affection had subsisted. Both of
them were high-toned men, and both of them had always been faithful in
the discharge of every duty to God and man. Each of them had a wife, a
son and a daughter, and two happier families could not have been found
on the face of the earth. They were not only devoted to each other, each
within its own circle, but the two families were as nearly one as it was
possible to be.

Captain Horatio had formerly been a shipmaster, and had accumulated
an immense fortune. Homer was less fortunate in this respect, and his
tastes were somewhat different from those of his brother. He wanted to
be a planter, and with the financial assistance of his brother, he went
into the business of raising cotton near Mobile, in Alabama. But years
before the war, he had paid off every dollar of his indebtedness to
Horatio, and had made a comfortable fortune besides. The two families
had visited each other as much an possible, and the captain, with his
little family, had been almost to the plantation in the Bellevite, the
magnificent steam-yacht of the Northerner.

During the preceding winter, Captain Passford, his wife and son, had
visited most of the islands of the Atlantic; but the health of Miss
Florry was considerably impaired, and the doctors would not permit her
to make this sea-voyage, but recommended her to keep quiet in some
southern locality. She had therefore passed the winter at Glenfield,
which was the name of Homer Passford's plantation. On his return from
this long cruise, the owner of the Bellevite obtained his first news
that war existed between the North and the South from the pilot. The
three members of the family on board of the steamer were greatly
distressed over the fact that Florry was still at the home of her
uncle in Alabama, within the enemy's lines.

Without going on shore, Captain Passford decided to arm his yacht, which
was large enough for a man-of-war, and hasten to Mobile Bay to bring
back his daughter. He was in doubt with regard to the political feeling
of Homer, but believed that he would still adhere to the government and
the Union. It was a part of his mission to bring his brother and his
family to his own home at Bonnydale. Mrs. Passford was sent on shore in
a tug, and Christy, the son, was to go with her; but the young man, just
entering his seventeenth year, protested against being left at home, and
as the captain believed that a patriotic citizen ought to be willing to
give his all, even his sons, to his country, the young man went with his
father. The mother was as devoted to her country as the father, and
terrible as was the ordeal, she consented to part with him for such a
duty.

By an event fortunate for him, Captain Passford succeeded in obtaining
an armament for his vessel, as well as an abundant supply of ammunition;
and the vessel was refitted for the perilous service in which she was
to be engaged. At Nassau, Christy made the acquaintance of a young man
who proved to be of great service to the expedition, and the Bellevite
reached her destination in safety, though not without some rather
exciting incidents.

Captain Passford found that his brother was sincerely and devotedly
attached to the Southern cause. They discussed the great question for
hours upon hours, each striving to convert the other to his own views,
but with no success on the part of either. Homer Passford was a
religious man, conscientious in the discharge of every duty, and nothing
less could be said of his Northern brother. In a short time the owner of
the Bellevite found that he had fallen into a "hornet's nest," for the
planter did not believe that he ought to allow the steam-yacht to be
taken to New York to become a part of the navy of the Union. He declared
his convictions to his brother, who was compelled to regard the planter
as an enemy in spite of the relations subsisting between them. Both of
them placed their duty to their own country above every other
consideration.

Captain Passford was obliged to get his daughter out of his brother's
house by stealth, and to make his escape with the Bellevite as best he
could.

Major Lindley Pierson, in command of Fort Gaines, at the entrance to
Mobile Bay, had permitted the steamer to pass, having been deceived by
his younger brother. He had been a frequent visitor at the mansion of
Homer Passford, attracted there, it appeared, by the lovely daughter of
the planter's brother, remaining there for the winter. Perhaps on her
account, perhaps with the fear that the Bellevite was not what she had
appeared to be, he had gone to the vicinity of Glenfield to inquire into
the mission of the steamer.

Homer Passford, acting upon his convictions, gave information which
resulted in an attempt to capture the Bellevite. Christy, not informed
in regard to the plans of his father to depart at once in the steamer,
was "Taken by the Enemy," and had some very stirring adventures in the
bay. But the steamer escaped from the numerous enemies that awaited her,
and Christy got on board of her at the last minute. The Bellevite ran
the gantlet of the forts in a dense fog, and brought Miss Florry in
safety to her home at Bonnydale.

Corny Passford, whose unexpected arrival at Bonnydale had excited the
astonishment of his uncle, was a year older than Christy, and had
enlisted in the Confederate service at the instance of Major Pierson.
Without knowing anything in particular about the matter, his uncle
believed, at his visit to Glenfield, that Corny was as earnestly devoted
to the Southern cause as his father, judging entirely from the fact that
he had enlisted as a soldier.

Corny had a good appetite, and a good supper was set before him. He ate
like a hungry boy, and the fact that he was within the enemy's lines did
not seem to have any influence upon him. His aunt helped him till he
seemed to be filled to repletion, for she thought he must have been
accustomed of late only to the most indifferent fare. After supper, he
followed his uncle back to the library; but he seemed less embarrassed
than before.

"Where is Christy, Uncle Horatio?" asked Corny, as he seated himself in
the library. "I have not seen him yet; and as I was away at the fort
when you went to Glenfield, I did not see him then."

"I don't know where he is just now, though he is in or about the house
most of the time," replied the captain. "Are you still in the army,
Corny?"

"No, sir, I am here. I did not like the service very well, and I thought
I should like the navy better. The reason why I did not like it as well
as at first was because I was no longer in Major Pierson's battalion,"
replied Corny, looking at his uncle as though he expected a question
from him.

"Then Major Pierson is no longer in the army?" added the captain.

"Oh, yes, he is; but I think he was the maddest man in the army soon
after you left."

"Indeed! Why was he so mad?"

"Because he was removed from command of Fort Gaines for letting you pass
it in your steamer."

"Then he is still in the service?" asked Captain Passford.

"Yes, sir; he is a good officer, and he will make his way, if he was
guilty of a blunder in letting the Bellevite pass the fort."

"Then you intend to be a sailor, Corny?"

"Yes, sir; in fact, I am a sailor now. I had been in your yacht so
much that I knew something about the ropes, and I had no difficulty in
getting transferred, as sailors were wanted more than soldiers," replied
Corny, who seemed to be studying the figures in the carpet.

"But if you went into the navy, how do you happen to be in New York?"
asked Captain Passford.

"I suppose you remember the Dauphine, which was fitting out when you
were in Mobile Bay?" continued Corny.

"I heard the name, and was told that she was one of the vessels that
tried to prevent the escape of the Bellevite."

"I was sent on board of her; but, in coming out of the bay, she was
captured by a Federal vessel, and sent to New York. I hid myself when
the crew were taken off, and came in her here," replied Corny, still
studying the carpet.

Captain Passford had not heard of the capture of the Dauphine. He was
not quite satisfied with the story of his nephew. But he was obliged to
go to the city, and he handed the guest over to his wife and daughter.
Corny wanted to see Christy, and Mrs. Passford had begun to be uneasy
that he did not return at dark. Corny went out to find him.




CHAPTER II

A DIFFERENCE OF OPINION


The Bellevite lay in the river, off the estate of Captain Passford,
though at a little distance below the mansion, from the windows of which
she could not be seen. Corny walked down the avenue and over the hill,
in the direction of the anchorage of the steamer. The boat-house was
near the mansion, and to the float attached to it a variety of small
craft were made fast. But the water was not deep enough there for the
Bellevite. Corny had been to Bonnydale, and passed many weeks there,
so that he was familiar with the localities.

As he passed the boat-house, he noticed that the Florence, which was
Christy's favorite sailing craft, was not at her moorings, and he
concluded that his cousin was away in her on some excursion. When he
reached the boundary line of the estate, he discovered the sailboat with
her bow on the beach, though her mainsail was still set. A gentle breeze
was blowing, with which the Florence could make good headway; but there
seemed to be no one on board of her. Corny watched her for some time,
waiting for the appearance of Christy. It was not an easy matter to
climb the high fence which bounded the estate, and the planter's son
could hail the boat, and be taken on board of her as soon as she got
under way again.

But Christy did not appear, and it was getting darker and darker every
minute. Something must have attracted the attention of the skipper on
shore, and he had doubtless landed. But while Corny was waiting for his
cousin, he saw two men making their way through the grove on the other
side of the fence towards the river. One of them he recognized, and gave
a peculiar whistle, which drew the two men in the direction from which
it came.

"Is that you, major?" asked Corny, in a low tone.

"Hush! You are a simpleton, Corny!" exclaimed one of the men, as he came
up to the palisades of the fence. "Didn't I tell you not to call me by
name?"

"I didn't call you by name," replied Corny, smartly.

"You called me major, and that is about the same thing," added the
speaker on the other side of the fence.

"The woods are full of majors now, both in the North and the South, and
no one knows you especially by that name. But I will remember in future,
Mr. Mulgate," replied Corny.

"That sounds better, Neal. If we lose the game it will be by your
blundering," continued the major, or Mulgate, as he preferred to be
called on the present occasion.

"I suppose you have no talent for blundering, Mulgate; and that is the
reason why you happen to be here at the present moment," retorted Corny,
not at all pleased with the speech of the other.

"None of your impudence, Neal!" said Mulgate, sharply.

"If you lose the game, you say that it will be by my blundering,
Mulgate," continued Corny. "That makes it seem as though I was to bear
the responsibility of a failure; and I don't like the looks of things.
If I am to be responsible for a failure, I ought to have something to
say about the manner of conducting the enterprise."

"Shut up, Neal! We have no time to talk nonsense of that sort. I am to
conduct the enterprise, and you are to obey my orders. That is the whole
of it," replied Mulgate, impatient at the position taken by the young
man. "You are still under my command, and you will obey me or take the
consequences. Now to business: what have you learned?"

"Nothing at all," answered Corny, rather sullenly.

"What have you been about? Haven't you discovered anything?"

"Nothing at all; I have but just arrived here. I took supper with my
uncle, and told him the fish story you invented for me."

"Did he believe it?"

"I don't know whether he did or not; but he and the rest of the family
treated me very handsomely, which made me feel meaner than a dead
catfish."

"Never mind your feelings; you are here to assist in a great enterprise,
and you are expected to do your duty to your country without regard to
your own notions. Report what you have done."

"I haven't done anything but introduce myself into the house, and
explain how I happen to be here," replied Corny, as he proceeded to
give the details of his meeting with his uncle.

"Is Miss Florry at home?" asked Mulgate, in a more gentle tone, as
though he had a deeper interest in the direction he had indicated.

"She is at home, and was at the supper table with us."

"How does she seem to be?" asked the stranger.

"First rate; she is as jolly as though no one ever heard of such a thing
as war," replied Corny, with enthusiasm.

"Did she say anything about her stay at Glenfield?" inquired Mulgate,
whose interest seemed to mount to the pitch of anxiety.

"Not a word; she did not even hint at Glenfield, or anything connected
with it," answered Corny; and, after the sharp tones of the other, he
seemed to take pleasure in thorning him with negative answers.

"Did she say anything about me?"

"Not a word."

"Didn't she mention my name?"

"She did not."

"Didn't she ask about my health, or want to know where I was?"

"Florry did not allude to you in any manner. If she wanted to know where
you were, she did not say a word about it to me," replied Corny, in the
most decided tones.

It was still light enough to see that there was something like a frown
on the brow of Mr. Mulgate. He had evidently believed that the daughter
of the millionnaire of Bonnydale was interested in him, and his
inquiries indicated that he expected her to ask about him; but she had
not made the remotest allusion to him. Besides, she was as jolly as she
had been at Glenfield, when war was a matter of the future, which few
believed would ever be realized. She had not grown thin and pale during
her absence from him, and she did not appear to be wasting her sweetness
in pining for him.

"What in the world are you talking about, Mulgate?" suddenly demanded
his companion on his side of the fence. "I thought we were here for
business, and you are talking about some girl."

"She is the lady of whom I spoke to you; she spent the last winter with
her uncle at the Glenfield Plantation. I am interested in her," replied
Mulgate, as though he had given a sufficient excuse for the questions he
had put to Corny.

"Are we to capture her and take her back to the State of Alabama?"
demanded the other, who seemed to be a gentleman of forty at least.

"I don't know; that depends; but, Captain Carboneer, I hope you will be
my friend in this little matter," added Mulgate.

"I don't know any thing about the little matter; but I am not willing
to jeopardize the enterprise that brings us here to help you out with
a love affair," replied the older gentleman. "There will be time enough
for you to look for a wife after the war is over, and you have more time
to attend to the affair."

"Mr. Mulgate, I should like to know something more about your intentions
before we go any farther," interposed Corny, in a tone so decided that
Mulgate had to listen to him, especially as he had obtained so little
sympathy from the elderly gentleman.

"Speak quick then, for we have no time to spare," added Mulgate.

"Do I understand from what you have said that you intend to take Florry
Passford back to the South with you?" asked Corny, with his teeth
closely pressed together, so that it was rather difficult for him to
speak intelligibly.

"I answer, as I did before, that I don't know what I shall do; that
depends," replied Mulgate evasively.

"Depends upon what?"

"I have no time to discuss that matter now," added Mulgate, turning to
his companion.

"But I have time to say that I will ruin the whole enterprise if you
mean to commit an outrage such as you appear to have in your mind,"
replied Corny, as vigorously as though he had been the military equal
of the one he had called "major" by accident.

"Do you mean to be a traitor to your country, Neal?" demanded Mulgate
angrily.

"Neither to my country nor to my uncle."

"Your uncle is a Yankee, and is doing all he can to subjugate the free
South. He has no rights which we are bound to respect," said Mulgate
fiercely.

"This will never do," interposed Captain Carboneer; and this may or may
not have been his real name. "We are getting into a disagreement at the
very first step of our enterprise."

"I don't know you, Captain Carboneer, but I wish to be understood as
meaning every word I have said; and I will wreck this enterprise, if
I am shot for it, rather than allow my cousin to be carried off in
connection with it," protested Corny stoutly. "I will do my duty
faithfully; but I will not assist in robbing my uncle of his daughter."

"You are quite right, young man; and I would rather be sent to the fort
as a prisoner of war than take part in such an enterprise," added
Captain Carboneer, in mild but forcible tones.

"You astonish me, captain!" said Mulgate. "Why do you talk about an
outrage? I claim to be a gentleman, and to be above any such villainy as
you and Corny suggest. I do not propose to rob Captain Passford of his
daughter. What I may do depends--depends upon the consent of the lady.
If she is willing to go with me"--

"She is not willing to go with you; and she never will be willing to go
with you," Corny interposed. "I don't know what you are thinking about,
Mr. Mulgate; but Florry cares no more about you than she does about
Uncle Pedro, my father's house-servant. She saw you both at Glenfield,
and I can't tell which she likes best."

"We had better drop the subject," added Captain Carboneer.

"Drop it, then," replied Mulgate sullenly. "Get over the fence, Corny.
Nobody is using that sailboat, and we may as well take it for a while."




CHAPTER III

THE DIGNIFIED NAVAL OFFICER


Corny climbed over the high palisade fence, with the assistance of
Mulgate, and the party walked to the sailboat at the beach below. By
this time it was dark, though the gloom was not very dense under a clear
sky.

"Do you know anything about this boat, Corny?" asked Mulgate, as the
trio approached the handsome craft, for such she was beyond a doubt.

The crusty tones of the speaker indicated that he had not yet recovered
from the set-back he had plainly received in the late conversation,
though he denied that he had any evil intentions in regard to Miss
Florry.

"I do; I know all about her," replied Corny.

"Well, why don't you tell what you know?" demanded Mulgate.

"What do you wish to know about her?" inquired Corny, who was disposed
to maintain his equality in spite of the military rank of his companion,
which he had incautiously betrayed in the beginning.

"Whose boat is it?" asked Mulgate.

"She belongs to my cousin, Christy Passford."

"Where is he now?"

"I don't know, sir."

"Was he at the house when you were there?"

"He was not; and his mother had become rather anxious because he did not
return to supper," replied Corny, becoming a little more pliable.

"This is a rather large boat, Captain Carboneer," added Mulgate, as he
surveyed the trim sloop. "She is rather too large for our purpose."

"She will answer very well," replied the captain, as he applied his
shoulder to the stem of the craft to ascertain how heavily she rested
upon the beach. "Now, do you know whether there is any person on board
of that steamer?"

"Of course, I don't know anything about it," said Mulgate.

"I am sure I don't," added Corny.

"I sent you up here to ascertain all about the Bellevite," continued
Mulgate, rather sharply.

"I have not had time to find out anything," Corny explained, with some
indignation in his tones.

"Corny has done as well as he could in the time he has had to do it in,"
interposed Captain Carboneer. "I think you are inclined to stir up bad
blood with this young man, Mulgate. It appears now that you have a
purpose of your own to accomplish, and that Corny will not allow you
to carry it out."

"My first purpose is the same as your own," replied Mulgate.

"You admit that you have a second object; and I cannot tell when you
will decide to make it your principal purpose," added Captain Carboneer.
"I am not satisfied with the situation. I have done everything I can to
accomplish our patriotic object. You endanger it by your crusty manner
to this young man, who seems to be willing to do his duty; and he is in
a position to be of great service to our enterprise."

"If you think it is necessary, I will take off my cap to this young
man," said Mulgate, with a sneer in his tones.

"Be reasonable, Mulgate."

"What can I do more than I have done?" demanded the military gentleman,
as his title indicated that he was.

"The first thing to do on your part is to renounce this idea of taking
a lady passenger with you in the steamer," replied Captain Carboneer, in
a very decided tone. "Women are not permitted on board of naval vessels,
especially in time of war."

"I don't think I have any idea to renounce," muttered Mulgate.

"You certainly hinted that you desired to take a lady on board, and
convey her to our destination," said the captain, rather earnestly.

"Not against her will, as you and Corny will have it," protested
Mulgate.

"Do you renounce that plan or that idea, whatever it may be?"

"I do not renounce it. If the lady is willing to go with me, as I
believe she will be, I know of no reason why she should not go as a
passenger," argued Mulgate.

"I think we had better abandon the enterprise in the beginning, for I
think we can be of more service to our country at liberty than within
the walls of Fort Lafayette," added the captain, with not a little
disgust mingled with his indignation.

Whatever his object in visiting this locality, he was clearly a
high-toned gentleman, and the idea of prosecuting a love adventure
in connection with what he regarded as a highly patriotic duty was
repulsive to his nature. He found by trial that the Florence was not
grounded very hard on the beach, for the tide was rising, and he drew
the boat farther up from the water, as he turned to walk away from the
spot.

"Am I to understand that you retire from this enterprise, Captain
Carboneer?" asked Mulgate.

"Am I to understand that you renounce your scheme to carry off a woman
as a part of the enterprise?" demanded the captain.

"I do not renounce it, though I have no intention to carry off a woman,
as you put it. The most I have asked is that she be permitted to go as a
passenger of her own free will," replied Mulgate.

"She never will go with him of her own free will," interposed Corny.

"I will not have a woman on board of the vessel, whether she goes
willingly or otherwise. Do you renounce that scheme entirely?"

"I think you are driving me into a small corner, Captain Carboneer."

"After what you have said before, I think I am fully justified in what I
require. With your private affairs, I have nothing to do. If you choose
to marry this young lady, I have nothing to say about that; but no woman
can be a passenger in a war vessel under my command. After I have landed
you at Bermuda or Nassau, I shall not attempt to run the blockade, which
is now enforced, in order to land you and the lady. Besides, we may be
in action at any time after we get under way."

"Then if I do not yield the point, you intend to leave me to carry out
this enterprise alone?" demanded Mulgate.

"In that case, I wish to go with you, Captain Carboneer," added Corny,
with emphasis. "But I want it understood that I shall not leave
Bonnydale without telling my uncle to look out for his daughter."

"Then you mean to be a traitor, Corny?" said Mulgate angrily.

"Call it what you like."

"All this is absurd, Mulgate," interposed Captain Carboneer. "Without my
resources, you can do nothing at all, and it would be foolish for you to
attempt the capture of the vessel. You are not a sailor or a navigator,
and you could do nothing with the vessel if you succeeded in getting her
to sea."

"I have no doubt I could find a hundred men in New York, including
half a score of navigators, to assist me in this enterprise," replied
Mulgate.

"I have another steamer in view, though the Bellevite is vastly superior
to anything I know of in speed and general fitness. Do as you think
best, Mulgate; and I shall be able to explain in a satisfactory manner
my failure to obtain this vessel."

"The fault will be mine, I suppose," muttered Mulgate.

"The court-martial will decide that point," replied the captain.

Mulgate seemed to be buried in his own reflections, no doubt suggested
by the last remark of the other. Possibly he considered that the failure
of such an important enterprise because he had insisted upon bringing
a lady into the affair would not sound well at home. Whatever he was
thinking about, he was greatly agitated, and Captain Carboneer walked in
the direction of the road, half a mile from the river. He had no time to
consider the matter: he must yield at once, or abandon the scheme.

"I will do anything you ask, Captain Carboneer!" he shouted, forgetting,
in his excitement, the demand for secrecy.

The naval officer, as his conversation indicated that he was, turned and
retraced his steps to the beach. He did not seem to be at all excited
because his associate had changed his mind, for in his judgment it would
have been worse than madness for him to persist in his intentions.

"I have stated the case as I understand it, and I have nothing more to
say, Mulgate," said he.

"I renounce my scheme, and I will not ask that the lady be a passenger
even to Bermuda or Nassau," replied Mulgate, though not without a
considerable display of emotion.

"Very well; that is enough. Nothing more need be said about your
purpose, since you have renounced it. Now we will visit the Bellevite,
and learn what we can in regard to her," said the naval officer, in his
usual quiet manner, and whether he was a Confederate or a Unionist, one
could hardly have failed to be impressed by his dignified deportment.

At the request of Captain Carboneer, Mulgate climbed to the forward deck
of the Florence. She was twenty-eight feet long, and her deck covered
more than half of her length. She had a very large cabin for a boat of
her size, which was fitted up with berths, with a cook-room forward of
it, for Christy Passford was often absent a week in her.

"I think Corny had better go back to the house, and keep an eye on
Christy, so as to make sure that he does not disturb us," suggested
Mulgate, as the planter's son was about to go on board of the yacht.

"I think we shall want him, and he had better be with us," replied the
captain, as one would speak when he expected to be obeyed.

Corny climbed up the stem of the Florence. He had never seen the captain
before, and had not even been informed who and what he was; but he
appeared to be a more important person than Mulgate, and he did not wait
for the latter to argue his point. He had sailed in the Florence very
often, and he knew all about her. He took a boathook, and planted its
point on the beach, in readiness to shove off.

"Not yet, Corny," said the naval officer, as he sprang lightly to the
deck of the sailboat. "Let us see where we are before we do anything."

Captain Carboneer seated himself on one of the cushioned seats in the
standing-room, and looked about him. A steamer towing a multitude of
canal boats was approaching, and he waited for it to pass. Then no
steamer or other craft was to be seen on the river.

"So far as I have been able to discover, there are only two men on board
of the Bellevite, and I think we have not a moment to lose," said the
naval officer, when he saw that the river was clear of everything that
might interfere with his plans. "But we must go on board of her, and
make sure of everything before we commit ourselves."

"As you said, Captain Carboneer, I am no sailor; and you don't think of
taking the steamer out of the river alone?" added Mulgate.

"I have not come here on a fool's errand, Major Pierson," replied the
captain. "We are alone now, and we may call things by their right
names."

"But I don't care to have my name used in this vicinity," interposed
this gentleman, when addressed by his own name.

"Your wish in this respect shall be respected, Mr. Mulgate. I was about
to say that I had a ship's company all ready to take possession of this
craft, to handle her at sea, and even to fight a battle if necessary."

"But where are your ship's company?" asked Mulgate, as he wished still
to be called.

"I will produce them at the right time. Now you may shove her off,
Corny," added the captain, as he took the wheel.




CHAPTER IV

CORNY PASSFORD PLAYS ANOTHER PART


Captain Carboneer brought the Florence about, and headed her across the
river. The Bellevite was moored a short distance from the estate down
the stream.

"I have been up here before to-day," said the naval officer, as the boat
moved away from the shore, assuring him that no one could be near enough
to hear what he said.

"We only reached New York yesterday, and I don't see how you can have
picked up a ship's company in that time," replied Mulgate.

"I sent the men before I came myself. I have stationed them in various
places on the river, where I can get them when I want them; and I shall
want them before the sun rises to-morrow morning," replied the captain.

"To-night!" exclaimed Mulgate, who seemed to be astounded at the
revelation.

"Yes, to-night; in a few hours from now. I have obtained all the
information I could in regard to the steamer, and what we do must be
done at once. The Bellevite, as they call her now, has not yet been
handed over to the government, though she has been accepted. They are
waiting for something, though I don't know what, and she may be sent
to the navy yard to-morrow; and then it will be too late for us to do
anything."

"But to-night--that is rather hurried," added Mulgate, musing.

Very likely he was thinking of the beautiful Miss Florry in the elegant
mansion a short distance up the river. Without a doubt he was Major
Pierson, since the naval officer had addressed him by this name and
title. He had often met the young lady at Glenfield Plantation, and
possibly his sudden visit to the North had not been without some thought
of her. However it may have been with her, he was at least very much
interested in Miss Florry.

The fact that she was a "Yankee" did not make her less beautiful, and it
did not make her any the less the daughter of a millionnaire. No one
could say that he was mercenary, however, and no one could say why he
was not as deeply interested in the daughter of the planter, for she
was hardly less beautiful, though her father was not considered a
millionnaire, to say nothing of a ten-millionnaire. Major Pierson did
not tell what he was thinking about; but he was certainly astounded and
badly set back when the naval officer intimated that the capture of the
Bellevite might be undertaken that night.

"You can see for yourself that we must strike at once, or there may be
nothing to strike at," replied Captain Carboneer.

"But we shall have no time to work up the case," suggested the major.

"The case is all worked up, and there is nothing more to work up,"
replied the captain, as he headed the boat for the steamer.

Major Pierson said no more, but he was as much dissatisfied with the
promptness of the naval officer as though he had said it in so many
words. It would be difficult to imagine how he expected to manage his
case with Miss Florry, since he could not enter the house without
betraying his identity. Perhaps he intended to lie in wait for her in
the grounds of the estate, and trust that her interest in him would
induce her to keep his secret.

"Is that you, Christy?" called a voice from the steamer, as the Florence
approached the Bellevite.

"Answer him, Corny," said Captain Carboneer, in a low voice. "Say 'yes,'
and ask who it is that speaks."

"Yes," repeated Corny. "Who are you?"

"Sampson," replied the man on board of the steamer.

"And who is with him," added the captain.

"Are you alone on board?" demanded Corny, varying his speech a little
from his instructions.

"No; Warping is on board, but he has gone to sleep in the pilot-house.
Do you want him?"

"No; but you wish to take a couple of friends on board to obtain the
measure of a gun-carriage," continued Captain Carboneer.

"No; I don't want Warping; I only wanted to know if he was on board,"
repeated Corny. "I have a couple of friends here who want to measure a
gun-carriage to-night, for they have to leave in the morning."

"Very well, young man; you understand yourself very well," said the
captain, in tones of approval.

By this time Captain Carboneer had brought the boat alongside the
accommodation steps, the lower part of which were hoisted up to prevent
any water tramps from coming on board without permission. But when Corny
had delivered the last message, the steps were lowered, and the Florence
made fast to them. Corny was told to lead the way, and act as though he
were Christy Passford, and owned the ship in his own right.

The planter's son went up the steps, and the other two followed him,
though the naval officer had really ascertained all he wished to know.
There were only two ship-keepers on board, and they would be no obstacle
in the way of the ship's company to which the captain had alluded. But
the leader of the enterprise had another object in view, though it was
only secondary in its nature. He was afraid to overburden the mind of
Corny, and he said nothing more.

"Is everything all right on board, Sampson?" asked Corny, as he stepped
down upon the deck of the vessel.

"All right, Christy," replied the man.

"I am glad to hear it. Is there anything new?"

"Nothing at all, Christy. I have been overhauling the boilers a little
to-day for the want of something to do, and they are in first-rate
condition. As you told me to-day that we might expect the order to
report at the navy yard at any minute, I thought I would have everything
as nearly ready as it could be."

"You have done very well, Sampson," added Corny, approvingly. "We are
to get under way early in the morning, and if father gets home he will
start the steamer as soon as he comes. He went to the city this evening,
and probably he will bring the order with him," continued Corny, making
use of the information he had obtained in the house.

"Where is this long gun, my man?" asked Captain Carboneer, taking a
measure from his pocket.

"Forward, sir," replied Sampson, as he led the way.

The captain kept some distance behind the ship-keeper, and took Corny by
the arm to detain him.

"Tell him to get up steam at once," whispered the leader of the party,
as he hastened forward to the long midship gun, where he proceeded to
take his measurements as though he were in real earnest, though it was
so dark that he could not possibly see the marks on his tape, even if he
tried to do so.

"You say that everything is ready to start the fires, Sampson?" said
Corny, as soon as he had a chance to speak to the ship-keeper.

"Everything is ready, Christy, and I have only to touch the match to the
shavings to make a beginning," replied Sampson. "Is there any news about
my appointment in the engine-room, Christy?"

"Not yet, Sampson; but the papers will soon come, and I am almost
willing to guarantee your appointment."

"Mr. Vapoor has already spoken a good word for me."

"All right, Sampson; then you are sure of the position. I am very sure
that we shall get the order before morning to move the steamer over
to the navy yard, and I think you had better start the fires at once,
Sampson," continued Corny, making himself as much at home on board of
the steamer as though he had really been the person he was supposed
to be.

"All right, Christy; and if the order don't come as soon as you expect
it, we can bank the fires, and no harm will be done," replied the oiler,
for such was his position on board, though he was evidently expecting
something better.

By this time Captain Carboneer had finished taking the measure of the
gun-carriage, though he had not been able to see anything. But he had
been through all the forms, and that answered his purpose just as well.
He declared that he had no further business on board, and the trio went
to the accommodation ladder. Sampson had called his sleeping companion,
and already the black smoke began to pour out of the smokestack.

"That was all very handsomely done," said Major Pierson, as they stepped
on board of the Florence.

"Everything worked very well; but it was all owing to the fact that the
ship-keeper thought that Corny was some other person," replied the
captain.

"I know that he took him for Christy Passford, and I have had some
experience with Christy," replied the major, recalling his attempts to
prevent the Bellevite from escaping from Mobile Bay. "He is a smart
fellow, as the Yankees would say, and it is fortunate that he is not
here at the present time."

"He can't be very far off," suggested Corny. "He was expected back to
supper, and I wanted to see him, for he is my cousin. He must be about
here somewhere."

"Never mind whether he is or not; we have finished our business here,
and the harvest is ripe for the sickle. We will leave this boat just
where we found it, for I have a rowboat a little farther down the
river," continued Captain Carboneer.

"I suppose I ought to return to my uncle's house," suggested Corny.
"If they miss me they will be looking about here to ascertain what has
become of me."

"I think you had better not try to relieve their anxiety to-night.
If they are worried about you, they will get over it in the morning
when they find the steamer is missing," said Captain Carboneer, with
something like a chuckle in his tones when he pictured the surprise of
the "Yankees" in making the discovery that the Bellevite had taken to
herself wings, and sped on her way to the South.

"I don't think they will worry about me," added Corny, laughing. "I was
afraid they might think I was here to capture the city of New York, or
something of that sort."

"I think you had better not undeceive them to-night," replied the
captain, as he ran the yacht upon the beach near where he had found her.

"Everything looks exceedingly well for our enterprise."

"If you get that steamer into Mobile Bay"--

"I don't intend to get her into the bay; that would be folly, and I
shall run no risks among the blockaders, for a single shot might give
her back to her present owners."

"No matter; if you only get her, and she is under the flag of the
Confederacy, it will put me back where I was when she went into the
bay by a Yankee trick," added Major Pierson.

"After the war, if you wish to see the young lady, you will have more
time to attend to the affair, and I shall wish you every success then,"
said the captain lightly.

"How long do you think the war will last, Captain Carboneer?" asked the
major, in this connection.

"Possibly it may last a year, though if we can break up that blockade,
it will not last six months longer."

The trio landed on the beach, and the naval officer made sure that the
Florence was securely fixed in the gravel. The party walked down stream,
embarked in the boat of which the captain had spoken. It was pulled by
two men, and after they had gone about a mile, the captain began to blow
a boatswain's whistle which he took from his pocket.

But they had hardly jumped down on the beach before Christy Passford
opened the cabin door of the yacht, and crept out with the utmost care.




CHAPTER V

CAPTAIN CARBONEER AND HIS PARTY


As Captain Carboneer blew his whistle, a mile below the moorings of the
Bellevite, an occasional response came from the shore. Everything was
remarkably quiet on the river, though at long intervals a steamer passed
on its way up or down the stream. The signals made by the naval officer
were not loud, and the replies, made without the aid of any instrument,
were quite feeble. One might have taken them for some frolic on the part
of the boys.

"I don't quite understand this business," said Major Pierson, after he
had listened a while to the signals. "I suppose from the answers you
get, that your men are all along the river, and the woods seem to be
full of them."

"I have no doubt they are all here," replied Captain Carboneer. "I have
been in this vicinity all day, and I have made good use of my time.
I believe the Bellevite belongs to the Confederacy, and it shall be
no fault of mine if the goods are not delivered in good order and
condition."

"My father was confident that he should obtain her at Nassau, though he
was mistaken," added the major.

"But when she went within our lines, we were all satisfied that she was
ours. I have not yet been able to understand why she was permitted to
escape."

"If you mean by that to cast any blame upon those who did their best
to prevent her escape, Captain Carboneer, you wrong them grossly,"
said Major Pierson. "She came on a friendly visit to the plantation of
Colonel Passford; but this gentleman, though the owner of the steamer
was his own brother, promptly gave information of her presence in the
creek, and did all he could to have her captured. No man could have
sacrificed more to his patriotism than he did."

"I do not reflect on him or on any one; I only wonder how the Bellevite
contrived to escape when several steamers were sent out to capture her,"
added the captain.

"The son of the owner of the Bellevite was a prisoner of mine, for when
I had my brother arrested for desertion, this young man was with him.
The only mistake I made was in not putting him in irons. The captain of
my tug proved to be a traitor to the Confederacy, and this fellow, with
Christy Passford, did the most of the mischief in preventing the capture
of the steamer."

"I was told that he was a smart boy," added the naval officer.

"He is all of that; and I think it was very fortunate that he did not
happen to be at home when we visited the Bellevite just now," said Major
Pierson, who evidently had a proper respect for the abilities of the
millionnaire's son.

"I do not see that his presence in his father's mansion, if he had been
there, could have made any difference," added the captain, as he sounded
his whistle again, and heard a faint response from the shore. "As long
as he was not actually on board of the steamer, he was harmless."

"Perhaps he was, though I have the feeling that it would have been
otherwise. There was a whistle from the shore."

"I heard it, and I understand it. Haslett has done his whole duty,
I judge," replied Captain Carboneer.

"Who is Haslett?" asked the major curiously. "I never heard of him
before."

"He is to be the first lieutenant of the Bellevite."

"You seem to have a full supply of officers and men, Captain Carboneer,"
added Major Pierson, apparently a little disconcerted. "I do not see
that I am of the least use here, for you seem to have done everything
without consulting me."

"In naval matters I have; but I give you full credit for the planning of
the enterprise," replied the captain, in his softest tones.

"When I was removed from my command because I allowed the steamer to
pass the forts, I felt that a great injustice had been done to me. I did
all I could to effect the capture of the vessel, but the attempt was a
failure," argued the major. "The shot hole through the bow of the Belle
utterly wrecked her, and the force on board of her could do nothing, and
Christy Passford had brought my own tug to bear against me. Why, the
Bellevite actually saved the force on board of the Belle from drowning.
A violent gale came up, and that did a great deal to nullify all our
efforts. But I think I did my whole duty."

"I have no doubt of it, Major Pierson; and for that reason you were sent
on this mission; and I am confident that the success of the enterprise
will restore you to your former command, or give you another quite as
good," said Captain Carboneer, as consolation to the military arm of the
expedition.

"But I cannot see that I have been of any use to this enterprise, and I
might as well have staid at home."

"You are too modest by half, major. You planned the expedition, and
suggested that Corny should take part in it, as he would have the
_entre_ to the residence of Captain Passford. But, being a mere boy,
he could not be sent alone, and your services were likely to be of
the most important character. It is no fault of yours that we found
everything made ready for us, as it were. It might have been quite
different, and the burden of the action might have rested upon you.
It is all right as it is."

"I am satisfied," added the major, "though I think it was no more than
right that you should have consulted me in regard to your methods, of
which I am still profoundly ignorant. In getting up the scheme, I based
everything on the fact that Corny could go into his uncle's house and
obtain all the information we needed."

"The scheme was well concocted; and I shall have the pleasure of
reporting to the government that the military arm of the expedition
conducted the enterprise to a perfect success, the naval force only
doing the duty pointed out by the military."

"You are very kind, Captain Carboneer," said Major Pierson, who could
not well help being entirely satisfied, and even greatly pleased, with
this happy showing of the final result.

"By daylight in the morning we shall be outside of Sandy Hook, I expect.
We have no time to waste, and you can see for yourself how the affair of
the young lady would have complicated our operations."

"How do you intend to convey these men, who seem to be scattered all
along the shores of the river, to the steamer?"

"They understand my signals, and they will all be ready within an hour
to take a small steamer which will pick them up."

"But where is the steamer?"

"She is farther down the river. As you seem to be a little sensitive to
the fact that I have not consulted you in regard to the naval operations
of this enterprise, I can tell you in a few words all there is of them,"
continued Captain Carboneer. "As you are aware, as soon as our plan was
matured by you, I left Mobile with Lieutenant Haslett, though you knew
nothing about him, for Nassau. We had no difficulty in getting out of
the bay, for the blockade was not then enforced. At Nassau I engaged a
couple of English engineers, and a few other officers, with thirty
seamen, mostly English, who were looking for prize-money. I had to take
my force to Quebec, for no steamer offered for New York. I sent them all
here in small parties, and Haslett posted them along the river when I
told him they would be needed to-night."

"I did not leave Mobile till two weeks later with Corny," added the
major. "But I got here sooner than you did."

"You were more fortunate in finding a steamer. I believe I have a
capital crew, though I shall obtain more men at Bermuda, or some other
port. There are plenty of good English sailors who are willing to fight
on either side if there is a good showing for prize-money; and I have
no doubt I shall capture a dozen vessels before we reach the Bermudas,
which will fully satisfy them, especially as the government will pay
the value of all vessels we are compelled to burn on the high seas."

"You will have the advantage over everything that floats, for I was told
that the Bellevite made twenty knots an hour, and had done twenty-two,"
said Major Pierson. "At what time do you think you will get on board of
the steamer?"

"By one or two in the morning, I hope; but it will depend upon the
steamer Haslett engages, though he told me he had bargained for an old
one with a walking-beam; but that will answer our purpose. I believe he
had to buy her, though she was of no great value."

At a creek which appeared to be the rendezvous of the conspirators,
the boat left the river; but there was no steamer, though quite a number
of men had gathered there. Leaving the party in the boat to follow out
the remaining details of their enterprise, which, by this time, in the
absence of anything like an obstacle, they regarded as so many mere
formalities, it becomes necessary to make another visit to the mansion
of Captain Passford. This gentleman had gone to the city upon important
business connected with the fitting out of the Bellevite, and he had not
returned when the clock in the great hall struck ten, which was at about
the time Captain Carboneer and his companions went into the creek five
miles down the river.

"There is no knowing when your father will come home, Florry," said Mrs.
Passford, as she suspended her work on a stocking she was knitting for
the soldiers. "But I can't imagine what has become of Christy. He never
stays out as late as this unless he tells us of it beforehand."

"I am really worried about him, mother," replied the beautiful daughter,
looking up from the stocking on which she was employed. "He went away in
the Florence, and something may have happened to him."

"I think not, Florry: there has been no storm, or heavy blow, and
he thinks he is as safe in his boat as he is on shore," added Mrs.
Passford, with an effort to control the fears of the daughter. "He may
have gone down to the city. He is very indignant at the delay in giving
the order to have the steamer sent to the navy yard, and wherever he is,
I am confident he is doing something in connection with the steamer."

"I wish I knew whether the Florence was at the boathouse," continued
Florry. "He said he was going out in the boat; but perhaps he did not.
Perhaps he is with father."

"There is the front-door bell," added Mrs. Passford, with a start.
"It cannot be your father or Christy, for both of them have latch-keys.
Who could come here at this time in the evening?"

"Mr. Paul Vapoor," said the man-servant, who answered the bell.

The gentleman announced walked into the sitting-room without any
ceremony, for he had long been a familiar visitor. He was dressed in
the full uniform of a chief engineer of the navy. Removing his cap, he
politely bowed to the two ladies; and any one who was looking might have
seen that Miss Florry blushed a little when she saw him; and very likely
if Major Pierson had witnessed the roses on her fair cheek, he might
possibly have concluded that it would have been useless to postpone the
capture of the Bellevite to enable him to fortify his position near her.

"I beg your pardon, ladies, for calling so late," said Mr. Vapoor, as he
drew a long envelope from his pocket. "But I thought Christy might wish
to see what is in this envelope before he retired."

"Why, what is in it?" asked Mrs. Passford.

"Christy's commission as a midshipman in the navy."

"But Christy is not at home, and we are somewhat anxious about him,"
added the mother, stating the facts in regard to her son.

Paul Vapoor volunteered to go in search of him, and left the house.




CHAPTER VI

THE CABIN OF THE FLORENCE


If Captain Carboneer had felt any especial interest in the Florence as
a sailing yacht, he might have desired to see the cabin of the craft,
which had always been the delight of Christy Passford. He had expended
a great deal of his pocket-money upon the arrangement and furnishing of
the cabin of his yacht, not only because he spent a considerable portion
of his vacation hours in it, but because it had been a perpetual study
with him to enlarge and improve it.

It is very difficult to get three pints of liquid into a quart measure,
and it was a conundrum of this sort that Christy was studying upon
when he tried to make a parlor, bedroom, and dining-saloon of the very
limited space in the forward part of the Florence. Though he could
hardly get the three pints into the quart measure, he had done the best
he could, and succeeded to a rather remarkable degree. But spite of the
miracle which had been wrought in the cabin, Captain Carboneer did not
even try the door of the apartment when he and his companions went on
board of the yacht. He was so absorbed in the enterprise in which he was
engaged, that his indifference to the miracle of the cabin may be
excused.

Even the double doors of the cabin were of handsome wood, elaborately
polished; and they were not secured with the usual appliance of a
padlock, but were provided with an expensive mortise-lock, which could
be operated upon either side. If Captain Carboneer had tried to open
that door, he would have found that it was fastened; but perhaps he
could not have discovered that it had been secured upon the inside.
Unless, therefore, he had taken the trouble to break open the door, he
could not have ascertained that Christy Passford was actually in the
cabin.

Possibly, if he had opened the door by any means, he would not have
discovered that the proprietor of the boat was in this dainty apartment,
for the skipper had taken a great deal of pains to conceal himself so
that he should not be seen, even if the intruders in the Florence had
succeeded in opening the doors without the aid of the key in his pocket.
Though he had two very nice berths in the cabin, miraculously arranged
as to space, Christy did not occupy one on the present occasion, for in
that case the unbidden visitors would have seen him if their curiosity
had led them to force the doors.

When the cook of the Florence, usually the skipper of the craft, was
engaged in the practice of the culinary art, he seated himself on what
looked like a box in front of the stove. But the interior of this box
was really a part of the cabin, for it contained the feet of any one
occupying the berth on the starboard side. The cookroom had no end of
bins, lockers and drawers to contain the variety of provisions and
stores necessary to get up a dinner for the skipper and his guests, when
he had any. And even all these places could not contain everything that
was needed on board. Under the two berths were large, though not very
deep, lockers, one of which contained the jib-topsail of the craft, and
other spare sails, while the opposite one was the fuel locker of the
sloop.

As the boat had not been used for a long time in cruising, the fuel
receptacle was empty, though a spare gaff-topsail had been thrown
into it. This locker was big enough to admit the body-corporate of
the skipper. It was not a particularly clean place, for a portion of it
had been economized for the stowage of the charcoal, which the skipper
preferred to wood. But he did not rebel at the blackness of the retreat
he had chosen, for he wore his boating dress, which was hardly stylish
enough for a dude or a dandy.

But Skipper Passford did not crawl into this black hole for the fun of
the thing. He had been spending his time in waiting for a movement to be
made in regard to the Bellevite. He staid in the house all the forenoon,
and, after lunch, he sailed down the river in the Florence, though with
no object in doing so beyond passing the time. Not far from the beach
where he had afterwards left the yacht, he discovered a boat rowed by
two men with a third in the stern sheets.

The breeze was quite gentle, though the Florence would sail at a very
tolerable speed when there was the least apology for a wind. She was
doing so on the present occasion, and Christy had stretched himself out
on the cushioned seat, with the spokes of the wheel where he could steer
without any exertion, or next to none. The idleness of his days since
his return from the eventful cruise of the Bellevite seemed to have
infected him with an unnatural indolence.

He felt as though he was rather more than half asleep when he saw the
boat with the two oarsmen. It was going up the river, while he was going
down. He had to luff a little to keep clear of the oars, but he did not
move from his half-recumbent posture. When the boat was alongside, he
glanced idly and carelessly at the person in the stern sheets. Instantly
he was wide awake, though he did not change his position. The person
looked like a gentleman, and Christy was sure that he had seen him
before. A couple of minutes of earnest cudgelling of his brain assured
him that he had seen the stranger in Nassau; that he was one of the many
who wanted to purchase the Bellevite, ostensibly for a merchant vessel,
but really for the Confederate navy.

After he had run a short distance farther down the river, Christy came
about, the boat being some distance from him, but the gentleman soon
landed and walked up the river on the shore, or very near it. In a short
time, he was joined by another person, whose form looked familiar to the
skipper of the Florence. He could not identify him, for he was not near
enough to him to see his face. A puff of air came from across the river,
and the Florence darted ahead, and Christy was soon out of sight of the
two strangers.

Near the boundary of his father's estate, he ran the yacht on the sandy
beach, letting her strike the sand hard enough to stick where she was
for half an hour, though she was not likely to get adrift, for the
gentle breeze was blowing her farther on the shore as the tide rose.

Christy hauled down the jib of the sloop, and then seated himself, or
rather reclined upon the cushions, though in such a position that he
could see the shore, or any persons who came upon it. No one was in
sight, and he had no one to watch. The swash of a great steamer passing
in the channel made his boat roll heavily for a moment, with the forward
part of the bottom resting on the sand. For the want of something better
to think of, he began to put conundrums to himself in the absence of any
other person to perplex with them. What was the gentleman that wanted to
buy a steamer in Nassau doing up the Hudson? This was the principal one:
he could not answer it. He gave it up; as the French have it, he had to
"throw his tongue to the dogs," having no use for it in this connection.

But while he was dreaming of the possible mission of the stranger,
he heard voices on the beach. Not deeming it wise to show himself, he
rolled off the cushion upon the floor of the standing-room, and then
fixed himself in a position where he could see and hear what passed
between the speakers. He could see without being seen. It did not
require a second look for him to decide that the second person on the
beach was Major Pierson, though his companion called him Mulgate.

If Christy had been interested before, he was excited now. The two
speakers were within earshot of the boat, and in the stillness of the
scene he could hear every word that was said. In a few moments he was in
full possession of the statements of the captain and the major in regard
to their intentions; and it appeared that the gentleman he had seen in
Nassau still desired to obtain a steamer.

Before it was dark, Christy was astonished to behold his cousin Corny on
the other side of the fence; and he readily understood that he was to
take part in the enterprise in hand. As yet the listener had obtained
but little more than the information in regard to the intention of the
visitors. When he found that they were disposed to take possession of
the Florence, and make their visit to the Bellevite in her, the skipper
retired from the standing-room of the boat to the cabin, where he locked
the door, and put the key in his pocket. When he realized that they
really meant to come on board, he crawled into the space under the
starboard berth, and arranged the sail so that it would conceal him
in case the intruders pushed their investigation into the cabin.

When he had completed his preparations, he was quite satisfied that
he should not be discovered. The trio came on board, and Christy fixed
himself so that he could hear every word that was said, for there was a
small opening under the berth through which the superfluous length of a
pair of oars could be thrust when not in use.

Christy, without the remotest suspicion on the part of the plotters
that they could be heard by any living being, and especially not by so
dangerous a character as Christy had proved himself to be to the peace
and dignity of the Confederacy, heard all that was said, and he obtained
a full idea of the intentions of the conspirators. When they went on
board of the Bellevite, he was so excited that he could no longer remain
in his prison, but came out, and crept up the accommodation ladder to
the deck of the steamer. But he was careful not to show himself, and,
having a key to the cabin, he went into it, locking the door after him.
Then he had a chance to think.

What should he do? He had no force at hand to beat off such a party as
Captain Carboneer mentioned. They might carry out their plot that very
night, as they had talked of doing. Perhaps it would be executed at
once, even while he was on board, and he would then be a prisoner. This
idea was too galling to be considered, and he left the cabin to visit
the wardroom. Going still farther forward, he was surprised to hear the
roar of the flames in the furnaces below. It looked at that moment as
though the Bellevite was doomed to sail under a Confederate flag. But if
he could do nothing more, he could save himself, even if he had to jump
into the river and swim to the shore.

Christy lost no time in making his way to the main deck of the vessel;
but he was careful to avoid the visitors. He went back to the cabin, and
went on deck from it. Then he discovered that the trio were in the act
of descending the accommodation steps. Mounting the rail he saw them
embark in the Florence, and sail down the river. Dismounting from the
rail, he hastened to the engine-room, where he found Sampson getting the
engine ready to be put in motion.

"Ah, Christy, I thought you had gone," said the oiler.

"Who were those two men who were on board?" asked Christy, not a little
excited.

"They were two gentlemen you brought on board, Christy," replied
Sampson, innocently enough.

"That I brought on board!" exclaimed the skipper of the Florence.

"Yes, sir: and I thought you had gone ashore with them," added the
oiler.

"I brought no men on board, Sampson! What are you talking about?"
demanded Christy impatiently.

"Didn't you bring two gentlemen on board, and didn't one of them want to
measure the carriage of the big gun?"

"No! I did not! I have not seen you before now this evening," protested
Christy.

"Then I have lost my senses. Didn't you tell me to get up steam, because
the steamer would be moved to the navy yard before daylight in the
morning?" demanded Sampson, bewildered by the denial of the young man.

"I see now," added Christy. "You mistook Corny for me."

Sampson gave him all the details of the visit of the strangers.




CHAPTER VII

MIDSHIPMAN CHRISTY PASSFORD


"In a word, Sampson, an attempt will be made to-night to capture the
Bellevite, and you have been getting up steam for the conspirators,"
said Christy, when the ship-keeper had finished his narrative of the
visit of the trio to the ship.

"Is that so?" exclaimed Sampson, opening his mouth and his eyes very
wide at the same time. "Why, I had no more doubt that the young man who
was talking to me was Christy than I have that he is talking to me now."

"You had better look at me again, and be sure that you make no mistake,"
replied Christy, rather disgusted at the failure of the man to identify
him.

"I never once thought that it was not you. When the sailboat came
alongside, I knew it was the Florence, and I supposed you were in her,"
pleaded Sampson. "But I spoke to you, as I supposed, when the boat came
alongside."

"Did you? What did you say?" asked Christy.

"I said 'Is that you, Christy?' And you said 'Yes.'"

"Of course I did! What else could I say after you had told the enemy
just how to proceed. You could not have expected any other answer."

"I suppose I was very stupid; but I hope no harm has been done, for they
have not got the steamer yet," added Sampson, very much disconcerted at
the blunder he had made, though an older officer than Christy might have
had more charity for the ship-keeper.

Seen in broad daylight, there was no striking resemblance between Corny
and Christy, though they were of about the same size, and had some
traits in common. As Corny and his companions came in the Florence,
it was not very strange that Sampson should take it for granted that
Christy was one of the evening visitors. The voices of the two cousins
were not unlike, and the sound was all he had to guide his judgment.
Then he was not in the enemy's country, and he could hardly have been
on the lookout for an enemy several miles up the river.

"Certainly no harm has been done, Sampson; but it is yet to be decided
whether or not the Bellevite is to go into the navy of the United States
or the navy of the Confederate States," added Christy, leaving the
engine-room.

"If we have snuffed the whole thing, I don't believe this steamer will
ever wear anything but the Stars and Stripes," said Sampson stoutly; and
there could be no doubt in regard to his loyalty, judging from his
speech, though that is not always to be trusted in time of war.

"Bellevite, ahoy!" shouted some one at the foot of the accommodation
steps.

"Have they come again so soon?" asked Sampson, as he rushed to the rail.
"It is only a small canoe."

"Is Christy on board?" called the visitor alongside.

"That is Mr. Vapoor: tell him I am on board," added Christy.

"Christy is on board, sir," replied Sampson to the hail. "Will you come
on board, sir?"

Paul Vapoor would and did come on board, and Christy gave him a hearty
welcome, for he was more glad to see him than he had ever been before in
his life.

"Where have you been all day and all the evening, Christy?" asked the
engineer. "Your mother and sister are very much worried about you, for
they have not seen you for a long time, and they fear that something has
happened to you."

"Something is likely to happen to me and all the rest of us who expect
to go to sea in this steamer," replied Christy, as he proceeded to
inform his friend as briefly as he could of the great event of the
evening.

"Well, if we are not in the enemy's country, the enemy are in ours,"
replied Paul. "What is to be done?"

"That is what I have been thinking of. I listened very attentively to
all that passed between Major Pierson and Captain Carboneer, and I am
satisfied that the latter has a considerable force somewhere on the
river, and their headquarters are at the mouth of a creek five miles
down the river."

"How many have they?" asked the engineer.

"I don't know; they did not mention the number in figures, but they have
enough to work the ship, and even to fight her," replied Christy, very
seriously.

"That means forty or fifty, at least," added Paul. "This looks like a
heavy matter, and it is quite time that something was done about it."

"But what shall we do is the question," said Christy anxiously. "We have
two men on board beside ourselves, and we can hardly expect to hold our
own against fifty."

"Who is this Captain Carboneer?"

"I saw him at Nassau, and he looked like a man of decision and
character. I don't know anything about him, but I have no doubt he is
a naval officer, both from the circumstances and from what I heard.
I should say that he knows what he is about. You said that my father
has not yet returned from the city?"

"He had not come at ten o'clock, and if he comes at all, the late train
does not arrive till after twelve."

"It may be too late to do anything at that time," said Christy. "But I
don't mean to give up the ship."

"Good! I am with you on that point, Christy. I called at your house to
inform you that you had been appointed a midshipman in the navy, and you
are likely to have a chance to christen your commission to-night. This
was all the rank they could give you, though you will really be a passed
midshipman, and be a master very soon."

Christy was delighted with this news, though he had no time to make a
demonstration of delight over it. He had narrowly escaped being the
third officer of the Bellevite the year before, because his father did
not believe in putting him forward as fast as his abilities would have
warranted him in doing. Captain Breaker and Paul Vapoor had made the
application for a position in the navy; for his father would not do it,
for the reason that he did not wish to ask any favors for a member of
his own family.

"I thank you and Captain Breaker for all you have done for me, Paul, and
I hope I shall be able to give a good account of myself. But we have no
time to talk about that now. Captain Carboneer was waiting for a steamer
which his naval associate, Lieutenant Haslett, was to charter or buy for
the use of the party," said Christy, as he led the way to the forward
deck of the steamer.

He and the engineer mounted the top-gallant forecastle, and looked
intently down the river. The tide was coming in, so that the vessel, in
coming up to her cable, pointed in that direction. But they could see
nothing, not a craft of any description. Then Christy led the way to
the long gun mounted amidships. He sighted across the piece, and, in a
moment more, his mind seemed to have settled on the policy to be pursued
in the present dangerous emergency. Perhaps the capture of a steamer
under such circumstances was a thing unheard of at that time, but
doubtless it looked simple enough to those who were engaged in the
enterprise.

"Do you think of engaging the enemy at long range, Christy?" asked Paul,
with a smile on his fine face, as seen by the light of the lantern which
Sampson had brought to the place.

"I think of beating them off in any way we can," replied the middy,
as his friends all called him from that time. "I have the gun pointing
to a certain object on the river, which Captain Carboneer's steamer must
pass. He can't help putting his craft where the muzzle of this piece
will cover it; and if we pull the lock-string at that instant, the shot
will knock his steamer all to pieces, and spill the conspirators into
the river."

"If you hit her," suggested Paul.

"You can't very well help hitting her. Just squint along that gun, and
see where the shot will bring up."

Paul complied with this request, and took a long look over the great
gun.

"I should say that it was pointed a little too high," said he.

"Perhaps it is; I have not fixed it just as I mean to have it. We will
put in the charge before we do that," added Christy, who was now as
self-possessed as though there was no excitement attending the operation
he was arranging.

"Do you know what steamer Captain Carbine will have?" asked Paul.

"Not Carbine; Carboneer. No, I don't know what steamer he will have;
only that she is an old one, and has a walking-beam," replied Christy.

"That is rather indefinite, midshipman," added Paul, with a smile. "You
can't always tell what a steamer is by looking at her, especially in the
night; and a walking-beam is not a novelty on a steamer upon this river.
You may send that shot through the wrong vessel; and if you should
happen to kill a dozen or two of loyal citizens of the State of New
York, they might be mean enough to hang you, or send you to the State
prison for life for it. It won't do to fire off a shotted gun like that
baby without knowing pretty well what you are shooting at."

"That is a long argument, Paul; and I have not the remotest idea of
doing any such thing as you describe. I am going to know what we are
firing at before we pull the lock-string," replied Christy, rather
impatiently. "But we have no time to dig up mare's nests. We will get
up the ammunition and load this gun; then we will do the rest of the
business."

As ship-keeper and a member of the engineer's department for the last
year, Sampson knew where everything was to be found. With all the usual
precautions, the magazine was opened, and ammunition enough for three
charges was conveyed to the deck, Warping having been called in to
assist in the work. The gun was carefully loaded under the direction of
Christy, who had been fully instructed and drilled in the duty. It was
pointed as nearly as practicable to the point in the channel which the
hostile steamer must pass, though the aim was to be rectified at the
last moment.

Paul went to his stateroom and took off his handsome uniform, replacing
it with a suit of his working garments. Then he hastened to the engine,
examined it, and satisfied himself that it was in good condition for the
office which was soon to be required of it. He gave Sampson particular
directions for his duty, and then went down the accommodation steps with
the midshipman.

"What are you going to do next, Christy?" asked Paul, for the young
naval officer had been too busy with his preparations to develop his
plan in full.

"We will go ashore first, and I will take the Florence to the
boat-house," replied Christy. "The next thing to be done is to make
a reconnoissance down the river."

"Why not go down in the Florence?" suggested Paul.

"Because that would be too simple and innocent altogether," replied the
middy; and perhaps he felt some of the dignity of his new rank. "I think
we had better see without being seen, especially as Captain Carboneer
has seen and sailed the sloop. I have no doubt he has a sharp, nautical
eye, and that he will recognize her. He might be rash enough to capture
her, and thus deprive the United States Navy of two young, but able and
hopeful officers, to say nothing of bottling them up so that he could
make short work of the Bellevite."

"You are right, Christy, as you always are. But see your mother before
you do anything, and I will obey orders. She worries about you."

They landed and hastened to the mansion.




CHAPTER VIII

ARRANGING THE SIGNALS


Mrs. Passford was astounded at the news brought in by her son, and Miss
Florry was terrified when informed that Major Pierson was not far from
the mansion. But Paul Vapoor assured the latter that there was no
danger, and Christy convinced his mother, who had a great deal of
confidence in him, that he was fully equal to the occasion.

"But I do not see that you can beat off the assailants if they happen
to get alongside of the Bellevite," suggested Mrs. Passford. "There are
only four of you at the most."

"I hope for re-enforcements," replied Christy, as he rang a bell for
a servant. "Beeks and Thayer, two of the quartermasters, live in the
village; Mr. Watts, the chief steward, and three others of the old
ship's company, live near here, and I think we can raise half a dozen
more, making ten in all."

"I know where to find half a dozen coal-passers," added Paul.

"Then we shall do very well if we succeed in finding all these," added
Christy, as the man-servant came to the door.

"Call up all the stablemen, and have two horses saddled as quick as
possible," continued Christy to the man.

"What's that for, Christy?" asked Paul, who had succeeded in quieting
the fears of Miss Florry.

He was not altogether inexperienced in this duty, for the young lady
had been alarmed more than once on board of the steam yacht, and he was
always more successful than any other person at these times.

"I can't stop to talk it all over, Paul; but if you will trust me,
I will tell you as we go along what I think of doing," replied Christy.

"All right, midshipman; I belong to the engine department, and we always
obey orders even if the ship goes down," added Paul, laughing.

"I am willing enough to tell you, but I have not the time to spin a long
yarn, and perhaps answer objections, just now. We will mount the horses
as soon as they come to the door, and drum up the force we have
mentioned."

Christy continued by giving Paul the names of those he was to visit and
summon to the deck of the Bellevite, and then they were to meet at a
given place. They mounted the two fleet horses which Christy had
selected for the occasion, and dashed off to the town, a short distance
from the river. The middy found the two quartermasters, who boarded in
the same house. They were to go on board of the steamer at once; but
Beeks was to bring a canoe from the boat-house to the point on the shore
nearest to the Bellevite before he went on board. Both of these men were
cautioned not to say anything about any person they might see, and the
same instruction was given to all the others whose services were
required.

Mr. Watts had not retired when Christy called at his house, and he was
duly startled by the information the young officer gave him. He was as
ready to take part in the enterprise as even the middy himself, and he
was conducted to the place where Paul was to meet the leader. He had
more calls to make than Christy, and they had to wait some time for him;
but when he did come, he reported that he had found and sent on board
all the firemen and coal-passers he had named, and a few more, besides
the old sailors who had sailed for years in the yachts of the owner of
the Bellevite.

The services of about a dozen had been procured, but half of these
were to do duty in connection with the engine, and the party so hastily
gathered were not strong enough to beat off the force of the enemy if
they attempted to board the vessel.

"Now, Paul, I want you to understand the whole affair before we go any
farther; and I wish you would go on board and take the command there,"
said the midshipman, as soon as the engineer had reported the result of
his mission.

"But are you not going to be on board, Christy? I don't pretend to be a
sailor or a gunner," said Paul.

"I shall go on board as soon as I can," replied Christy. "You will find
a boat on the shore, near the steamer, and you will go on board in that;
but have the boat sent back for me."

"All right, Christy; I will obey orders," added Paul, as he dismounted
from his horse.

"Mr. Watts will take your horse, and ride with me down the shore. We can
see the river all the way, for we shall not stick to the road when it
leads us away from it. As soon as we discover the steamer that is to
bring up the enemy, I will run my horse back to this point, and go on
board."

"That is all easy enough," added Paul.

"Easy enough; but I can form no idea as to when the steamer will come.
We may have to wait till morning for it, and perhaps the plan of the
enemy will fail, and they will not come at all."

"If they don't come to-night, they never will; and there will be time
enough for the home guard to scour the woods, and arrest all suspicious
persons."

"I said what I did so that you need not be impatient if you have to
wait a long time. You will have a watch kept from the moment you get
on board, and no stranger is to be allowed to put a foot on the deck.
Captain Carboneer may send some one of his party to see that everything
is working right on board for his side of the affair."

"I will do that."

"See that the steam is well up, so that we can move off in good time if
we find it necessary to get under way," continued Christy.

"I thought that was a settled point, and the ship was to be taken down
the river in any case," said Paul.

"I supposed so myself in the beginning; but if it is not necessary to
run away, I don't care to do so. Let Boxie see that the cable is buoyed
and ready to run out at a moment's notice."

"All right, midshipman," replied Paul, as he hastened to the boat.

"Why does he call you midshipman?--that is a new name," said the chief
steward.

"He brought me the news this evening that I had been appointed in the
navy with that rank," replied Christy. "Now we will ride down the river.
Do you happen to know what time it is, Mr. Watts?"

"I don't know, but I think it is about half-past eleven. I am not much
of an equestrian," replied the steward, as he mounted the horse, "for I
have been to sea all my life; but I think I can stay on if the beast
don't run away with me."

"He is perfectly gentle, and he will not run away with you. We have no
occasion to ride fast, and we may not have to go more than two or three
miles."

They rode along the river for a few minutes, and then Christy reined in
his steed and dismounted. He went to the water side, at a point where
there was a bend, and carefully examined the surroundings, both above
and below. He could not see the Bellevite in the darkness, for he had
directed the engineer to allow no light to be shown on board of her.
He had brought a little mathematics into his calculations, and he had
pointed the big gun of the steamer so as to cover the craft with the
walking-beam when she came in sight around this turn of the stream. By
this plan she was sure to come into the range of the piece, no matter on
which side of the channel she was moving.

"Now, Mr. Watts, I have a further duty for you to perform," said
Christy, as he explained his plan to the steward. "We shall go down the
river till we meet this steamer which conveys the enemy. As you are a
sailor as well as a caterer, you have a nautical eye, and when you have
seen this steamer you will know her again."

"Trust me for that. If it is the old tub I think it is, I know her
already," answered the steward.

"What steamer do you think it is?"

"The old Vampire; and if you give her much of a rap, she will go to the
bottom without the least difficulty."

"I don't care where she goes to, provided she don't put her passengers
on board of the Bellevite. But I am taking you down the river with me in
order that you may see her and know her."

"I shall know her as soon as I see her."

"As I said before, I shall run my horse back and get aboard of the
Bellevite as soon as I am satisfied that the enemy are moving up the
river," continued Christy.

"I am afraid I shall not be able to keep up with you if you run your
horse," suggested the steward.

"I don't want you to keep up with me. You can come along as leisurely as
you please, though you must not let the enemy get ahead of you."

"If the enemy are in the old Vampire, I could keep ahead of her on
foot."

"You had better keep ahead of her on your horse about a quarter of a
mile, or more; but your main duty will be here. I have brought with me
half a dozen Roman candles, and I am going to fix them in the ground on
this spot. Here is a bunch of matches," said Christy, handing it to him.

The steward watched the midshipman while he planted the fireworks in the
sand, and particularly marked the spot where they were located, for his
companion told him he was to fire them, and he must be ready to do so
without any delay.

"A boy could do that and like the fun of it," said Mr. Watts, laughing
at the simple duty he was to perform.

"But it is the time that you are to do it, and the boy might be
skylarking, or become impatient. This signal of the fireworks is to
assure us at the right moment that the Vampire, if it should be she,
is in the place where I expect her to be."

"I understand it perfectly."

"After I leave you, another steamer may come along, and get to this
point ahead of the Vampire; and I should be very sorry to blow her out
of the water, or sink her under it. You are to let us know by this
signal that it is the Vampire, and no other, that is coming round the
bend. You had better leave your horse a short distance from the river,
for that gun will make every pane of glass within a mile of it shake
when it is discharged."

"You may be sure that I will not be on his back at that time."

"Still further: I have planted six candles in the sand. You will light
only one of them when the steamer begins to round the bend. That will be
enough to inform us of the fact on board of the Bellevite."

"What are the others for?" asked the steward, taking a memorandum-book
from his pocket as though he intended to write his instructions.

"It is not necessary to write it. We shall not be able to see what
effect the shot produces after we fire. If the Vampire, always supposing
she is the one, is not hurt, light a second candle--only one of them. If
she should be disabled, you will light two candles."

Christy repeated what he had said, and was careful not to give the
steward too much to remember. As soon as the matter was fully
understood, the middy mounted his horse, and they proceeded on their
mission down the river. After they had ridden about three miles, Mr.
Watts insisted that the steamer was coming, and that it was the Vampire.

"I don't see anything," added Christy.

"Neither do I; but I know that the Vampire is coming up the river. If
you listen, you will hear a hoarse puffing; and nothing but that old ark
could make such a wheezy noise," replied the steward.

The middy heard it and was satisfied.




CHAPTER IX

THE APPROACH OF THE VAMPIRE


The Vampire, as the steward had no doubt it was, could not be less than
a mile distant from the spot where the two horsemen had halted in the
road. Christy was very familiar with this portion of the river, and
after he had listened a few moments, he was satisfied from the direction
of the sound he heard, that a mile was very nearly the exact distance.
The approaching steamer had to come around a small bend, the arc of
which made just a mile.

"I don't wish to blow up a dozen or twenty loyal citizens, and I must
make sure in some way that Captain Carboneer's party is on board of that
steamer," said Christy, as he led his horse into a field, and tied him
to a tree, the steward following his example.

"That would be a very bad thing to do," added Mr. Watts, as they walked
back to the river. "But I don't see why it is necessary to blow up even
any rebels on the present occasion. If that naval officer has forty men,
as you think he has, a shot from that long gun would make terrible havoc
among them if you succeeded in hitting her. You might kill half of
them."

"If we do they, and not we, will be responsible for it," added Christy,
somewhat appalled by the suggestion of his companion.

"If you have steam up on board of the Bellevite, why not get under way
and run down the river," continued Mr. Watts.

"Perhaps I am a coward, but I am afraid to do that," replied the
midshipman, thoughtfully.

"We all know that you are no coward, Christy, and if you don't send a
shot into the Vampire, it will not be because you are afraid."

"Although I know the river as well as any pilot in this vicinity, I
should not dare to run the Bellevite at full speed around such a bend
as the one off this spot," Christy explained. "We have not above half a
dozen trained sailors who know how to handle a cutlass on board, and all
the others will be needed in working the steamer. The coal-passers would
be good for nothing in repelling boarders."

"You think Captain Carboneer would board the steamer, do you?"

"I have no doubt he would. He is a naval officer, and he knows what
he is about. There are several ways that he might get a hold on the
Bellevite, and, if he got alongside of her, I am afraid it would be all
up with us, and we should have a fair chance to see the inside of a
Confederate prison. I am afraid to run the risk you suggest, Mr. Watts."

"You know best, and I don't mean to interfere; I only thought I would
suggest the idea," added the steward, as they reached the bank of the
river again.

After he had secured his horse, Christy had lighted a match and looked
at his watch. It was a quarter of one, and still the puffing of the
Vampire came from the same direction. It was plain enough to him that
the old tub was not a racer. But she showed herself beyond the bend in
about a quarter of an hour, indicating that her rate of speed, or rather
of slowness, was not more than four statute miles an hour. But this was
simply confirmation of what the steward had said on the subject. Yet she
was coming, though it was too dark on the river to see her in detail.
Though he strained his eyes to the utmost, Christy could not discover
any men on her forward deck.

"I think you had better move back where you cannot be seen," said the
midshipman, in a low tone, to his companion.

"Do you wish me to leave you alone, Christy?" asked the steward,
surprised at the request.

"That is just what I wish, for I don't care to have any one on board of
the Vampire see more than one person at this point," replied Christy,
still gazing through the gloom at the approaching steamer.

"Excuse me, Christy; but what are you going to do? I prefer to be within
supporting distance of you."

"I don't think I shall need any support. I am going to hail the Vampire,
and ask if Captain Carboneer is on board," replied the midshipman,
quietly.

"You are going to hail her!" exclaimed Mr. Watts. "Are you mad, Christy?
I should say that you were."

"You shall be your own judge on that point."

"But the moment you use the name of Captain Carboneer, they will take
the alarm, and the next thing will be a bullet through your head."

"I will take the risk of that," answered Christy. "But you need not go
far from the river on this dark night. There is a clump of bushes this
side of the road, and you may get behind it."

The steward was not at all satisfied with the situation, but he complied
with the request of the midshipman, and concealed himself behind the
bushes. Christy took a position on the very verge of the water. The
progress of the Vampire was made at the expense of a hideous noise, and
she was a craft not at all adapted to the purpose of the conspirators.
The middy watched her with the most intense interest as she approached
the point where he was stationed. There was no light to be seen on
board, and there appeared to be no men on her lower deck; but she had a
cabin and other rooms, in which a force as large as that of the captain
could be concealed.

"Steamer, ahoy!" shouted Christy, as soon as the Vampire was abreast of
the spot he occupied.

No answer came to this hail, and the midshipman repeated it, louder than
before.

"On shore!" replied a voice from the forward deck.

"Come up to the shore, and take me on board, will you?" continued
Christy, disguising his voice to some extent the better to answer his
purpose.

"Who is it?" demanded the person on board who acted as speaker; and
Christy could see his form very distinctly, as he stood at an open
gangway, and was the only person in sight on the lower deck.

"Brigster," replied Christy, chewing up the word he coined so that the
man could not possibly make it out.

"Are you alone, Brewster?" demanded the speaker from the steamer.

This was a hard question, and with less information than he had obtained
while in his cabin on board of the Florence, he would not have dared to
reply to it. But he knew something of the plan of the conspirators, and
he felt competent to answer.

"Three more back in the road," replied Christy, promptly; and he said
three so as to give the idea that the force on board might be increased
by this number. "Is Captain Carboneer on board of that steamer?" asked
the midshipman, coming to his main point.

  [Illustration: "Steamer, Ahoy!" shouted Christy.--Page 107.]

"He is, and we are all here but four," replied the speaker on the deck;
and Christy was satisfied that the captain was the person by this time,
for his language and his voice indicated that he was an educated man.

"We had no boat, and we could not get across the river to the creek,"
added Christy, to increase the confidence of the leader of the
expedition. "But we saw a boat half at mile up the river, and we
will come off there, if you say so."

"All right; come on board as soon as you can," added Captain Carboneer,
as he walked away from the gangway.

Mindful of the peril of the situation, Christy walked leisurely back
from the river, and soon joined Mr. Watts, who had been near enough to
hear the conversation between the captain and the midshipman.

"That was done very handsomely, Christy," said the steward.

"There was no great difficulty in handling such a matter when one knew
all about the plot as I did. The fault on the other side was that they
did not examine the cabin of the Florence before they discussed their
plans in the standing-room," replied Christy, as he unfastened his
horse, and sprang upon his back. "I have no time to spare now."

"There is nothing more to be done here, I believe," added Mr. Watts.

"Not a thing. You can ride back to the place where the Roman candles
are planted, and you need not hurry about it, for the Vampire don't
make more than four miles an hour. Now be particular to carry out my
instructions to the letter, Mr. Watts; and you can see that a great deal
depends upon which signal you may have occasion to give," added the
midshipman.

"I understand what I am to do perfectly, and I will do my duty
faithfully, you may be sure," replied the steward, as he mounted
his horse.

Christy did not wait for him, but put his steed into a dead run on
the moment. The road was only a cart-path, and it was so soft that the
horse's hoofs made no noise to betray his movements to the enemy. He
urged the willing beast to his utmost speed, for he was as much at home
in the saddle as he was in the rigging of a ship. Before the Vampire had
made another eighth of a mile, he had reached the place where the boat
had been left for his use. What to do with his horse was a question, for
the report of the big gun would set him crazy. But he knew that the men
must be at the house, and he turned the animal loose, satisfied that he
would go to the stable without any guidance.

Springing into the boat, he pulled to the Bellevite. At the
accommodation steps, he was challenged by Sampson, who demanded like
one in authority who and what he was, for the experience of the evening
had greatly sharpened his wits.

"Who is it?" he demanded, in a tone which implied his intention to have
a satisfactory answer. "Advance and give the word."

"Give the word!" exclaimed Christy. "I have no word to give."

"Then you can't come on board," replied Sampson dogmatically.

"I am Christy Passford, and I have not heard about any word," protested
the midshipman.

"You can't pour molasses down my back again," replied Sampson, with a
self-satisfied air.

"Don't be a fool, Sampson," added Christy, as he climbed upon the steps,
the lower part of which had been hoisted up.

"I have been a fool once, and I don't mean to be again," replied the
sentinel. "On deck, there! Bring a lantern out of the engine-room!"

"Don't bring a lantern in sight!" protested Christy impatiently.

"What's the row there, Sampson?" called Paul Vapoor, mounting the rail,
and looking through the darkness at the steps, down which the vigilant
sentinel had descended more than half way to the water.

"This fellow says he is Christy Passford; and I don't know whether it is
Christy or not," replied Sampson.

"Is that you, Christy?" asked Paul.

"Of course it is," replied the middy. "We are wasting time."

"He hasn't the word," added the sentinel.

"Pass him, Sampson; he is all right," said the engineer; and Christy
rushed up the steps, and leaped down upon the deck of the steamer.

"I gave out a word for all who had to leave the ship for any purpose
during the evening," Paul explained.

"Never mind that now," interposed the midshipman in command. "Have you
plenty of steam on?"

"Enough to give her fifteen knots," replied the engineer. "The cable
is buoyed, and the long gun loaded. I believe everything is in perfect
order to carry out your instructions, though we did not point the gun
when we loaded it, for I thought you would prefer to do that yourself,"
the engineer reported.

"All right, Paul," added Christy. "The steamer, whose name is the
Vampire, is on her way up the river, and I should say she would reach
the bend in about half an hour. Mr. Watts is down there, and I have
arranged certain signals with him."

The midshipman made a careful examination for himself of the ship.




CHAPTER X

A SHOT FROM THE LONG GUN


Christy Passford, as soon as he found that all the other preparations
for the decisive event had been made, turned his attention to the aiming
of the long gun. He had practised with it somewhat before; and in the
ambitious spirit of a boy, he had often amused himself by sighting over
the top of the piece.

There was no sort of duty on board of a vessel, even a war steamer, in
which he had not done his best to make himself a proficient. He had done
duty as an engineer, and even as a fireman. He had taken his trick at
the wheel as a quartermaster, and there was nothing he had not done,
unless it was to command a vessel, and he had done that on a small
scale. Doubtless he had no inconsiderable portion of a boy's vanity,
and he believed that he could do anything that anybody else could do;
or if he was satisfied that he could not, he studied and practised till
he did believe it.

Be it vanity or pride, Christy certainly believed in himself to a very
liberal extent, though his character was fortunately leavened with a
large lump of modesty. What he believed, he believed for himself, and
acted upon it for himself; so that he was not inclined to boast of his
accomplishments, and permitted others to find out what he was rather
than made it known in words himself. But his father had found it
necessary to restrain him to some extent, and he had not pushed him
forward as rapidly as he might have done till the dread notes of war
were heard on the land and the sea; and then he thought it would be
wrong to hold him back.

When Christy sighted along the great gun, he believed he could hit the
Vampire almost to a certainty; but he was not self-sufficient, and did
not often believe that he knew a thing better than any other person, and
he was not above taking the advice and instruction of others. It was
dark, but Christy had fixed upon an object at the bend below, of which
he intended to make use in firing the gun. It was a tree which painted
its outline on the horizon, and the decisive moment was to come when
the Vampire was in range with this tree. He adjusted the gun just as he
wanted it, and he was satisfied it would do just what he required of it.

He was not inclined to act on his own judgment and skill alone, and he
called Boxie, the old sheet-anchorman, who had been the captain of a gun
years before the midshipman was born, and pointed out the tree to him,
asking him to sight along the gun. He explained his plan to the old
salt, and then asked his opinion.

"You have aimed it too high, Mr. Passford," said the veteran, after he
had squinted a long time along the piece.

"How is it otherwise?" asked Christy.

"It is all right, sir; but the shot will pass over the steamer. Drop the
muzzle a trifle, and the shot will hull her, if you pull the lockstring
at the right time."

"I shall see that the string is pulled at the right time; thank you,
Boxie," added Christy, without depressing the gun as the old man
suggested, for he had a theory of his own which he intended to carry
out.

"But the ship may change her position a trifle," added Boxie.

"Of course, I mean to sight the gun again at the very moment we fire,"
replied Christy, looking at his watch, though he was obliged to go into
the engine-room to see what time it was.

It was after two, and the Vampire had had time enough to make the bend.
Christy wondered if Captain Carboneer was not looking for the four men
he had promised to put on board of the old steamer; but some promises
are better broken than kept, and the midshipman thought this was one of
them, though he did not consider the present occasion as any excuse for
lies, or the failure to keep his word, in the indefinite future.

The acting commander of the Bellevite--for such the middy was, and
no one disputed his authority--began to be very nervous at the
non-appearance of the enemy. He was afraid that some mishap had befallen
the Vampire; either that she had gone to the bottom or got aground,
though he had heard Captain Carboneer say that he was a pilot for this
part of the river.

Christy had mounted the gun carriage ready to take his final aim, and he
had been there at least half an hour. He was watching the point where
the Roman candles had been planted, and he had perfect confidence in
the judgment and fidelity of Mr. Watts. Boxie was stationed at the
lock-string, and held it in his hand, ready to speed the great shot
on its errand of destruction; but he hoped the midshipman would depress
the muzzle of the gun before he was called upon to pull the string. The
other sailors who had served on board of the Bellevite, and had been
drilled in handling the guns, were all in their stations, ready to load
the piece again as quickly as possible after it had been discharged.

The silence had become intense and painful to all, for apart from
the messenger of death and devastation which was about to be hurled at
the Vampire, the Bellevite was in danger of being captured, and had a
resolute enemy in front of her. The safety of the pet steamer depended
upon the skill and judgment of a mere boy, though everybody on board had
entire confidence in him. But the supreme moment came soon enough.

  [Illustration: "Christy sprang to the Gun."--Page 119.]

A hardly perceptible light at the point he was so closely watching,
first attracted the attention of Christy,--perhaps the lighting of the
steward's match. An instant later, the fireworks blazed up, and lighted
up the smooth surface of the sleeping river. No doubt the conspirators,
who had chosen darkness because their deeds were evil, were astounded to
see so much light suddenly thrown upon their enterprise.

Christy sprang to the gun, took a hasty sight, which satisfied him that
the position of the gun had not changed a particle. As the dark outline
of the Vampire passed in range of the selected tree, the midshipman
sprang down from the gun-carriage.

"Fire!" shouted he, in a determined though not very loud tone.

It was a tremendous explosion, and the echoes rolled out from the hills
as though they were armed with heavy guns, and were taking part in the
conflict. Probably the rattling windows and the shaking frames of the
houses roused all the sleepers within a mile of the ship.

The Bellevite was enveloped in the smoke from the discharge, and though
Christy mounted the carriage again to obtain a better view, he could see
nothing, for there was not wind enough to sweep it away at once. But the
young commander watched, with almost as much interest and anxiety as
before, the signal station he had established. But there was no occasion
for desperate haste, for the gun was ready for use a second time if the
first shot had failed to do its work. On the other hand, if the Vampire
was disabled, she would stay where she was, or drift down the river with
the turn of the tide, and it was just about "full sea" at this time.

The smoke was very aggravating to the midshipman, but he could not help
himself. The light air swept it away in time, and, with his strained
eyes, Christy discovered that two Roman candles were burning at the
signal station.

"Did you hit her, Christy?" asked Paul Vapoor, leaping on the
gun-carriage.

"I did," replied the midshipman, trying to control a certain feeling of
exultation that took possession of his mind, for he did not consider
that some of the party below might have been killed by the shot.

"I suppose you don't know anything about the effect of the shot yet?"
added Paul.

"I only know that the Vampire is disabled."

"How do you know that, for I can't see anything?"

"Do you see those two blue lights burning at the side of the river?"
asked Christy, as he pointed to the place.

"I see them, and they light up the river like a flash of lightning."

"They mean that the steamer is disabled; and for that reason she can't
come any nearer than she is now."

"But those villains will make their way to the shore, and there are
boats enough about here to enable them to get alongside, and lay us
aboard. This is not the end of the affair," said the engineer, very
seriously.

"Decidedly not; but I hope to have further information in the course of
a few minutes," replied Christy.

"Bellevite, ahoy!" shouted some one on shore.

"That is Mr. Watts; send Sampson on shore after him, and we shall
soon know the condition of affairs on board of the Vampire," added the
midshipman. "I told the steward to ride up as fast as he could after he
had satisfied himself that the steamer was disabled."

Sampson was gone but a few minutes, during which time Christy and
Paul consulted in regard to the next step to be taken, and the question
was promptly decided. The boat in which Sampson had gone to the shore
returned not only with the steward, but also with Mrs. Passford and Miss
Florry.

"What does this mean, mother?" asked Christy, astonished to see his
mother and sister come on board.

"It means that we were alarmed, and could not stay in the house any
longer," said Florry, taking it upon herself to answer.

"Your father has not come home yet, Christy, and I don't think he will
come to-night, for he said he might not be able to return in the last
train," added Mrs. Passford. "We came down to the shore with two of the
men, and saw Mr. Watts when he arrived on the horse."

"And I shall take the responsibility of having advised the ladies to go
on board of the Bellevite," interposed the steward.

"But you have not reported upon the condition of the enemy after the
shot hit the Vampire, Mr. Watts," said Christy, impatiently.

"The shot struck her walking-beam, smashed it all to pieces, and cleaned
it off completely. Of course, that disabled her. Very likely some of the
party on board of the Vampire are hurt, for the pieces did not all drop
into the water."

"Now, in regard to the ladies?" suggested the midshipman.

"It is for you to decide, Mr. Passford, whether or not the enemy are
likely to renew the attempt to capture the steamer. But it seemed to me,
whether they do anything more or not, it is not quite safe for the
ladies to be alone in the house with the servants, for these fellows
will be prowling about here in either case."

"I would not stay in the house for all the world!" protested Miss
Florry; and probably she thought that one of the prowlers would be Major
Pierson.

"You are quite right, Mr. Watts; I was not as thoughtful as you were,"
replied Christy, who took in the situation with this suggestion. "What
were they doing on board of the Vampire, Mr. Watts?"

"I did not wait to observe their movements, but the boat began to drift
down the river."

"Beg pardon, Mr. Passford, but the ship is swinging around, and you will
not be able to use that gun as it points now," said Boxie, touching his
hat to the young commander.

"Stand by your engine, Paul; we will get under way at once. Boxie, cast
off the cable, and let it run out. You buoyed it, did you not?" said
Christy, with a sudden renewal of energy, as he hastened to the
pilot-house, where Beeks and Thayer had been sent before.

"I buoyed the cable, sir," replied the sheet-anchorman.

"Then cast it off. Sampson, open the cabin for the ladies," added
Christy, as he disappeared in the pilot-house.

But the ladies preferred to go into the engine-room.




CHAPTER XI

THE BATTLE ALONGSIDE THE BELLEVITE


The signal lights at the bend of the river had burned out, and nothing
could be seen in that direction. The turn of the tide had carried the
wreck of the Vampire, if she was a wreck, down the stream, and beyond
what the steward had reported, nothing was known in regard to her. Mr.
Watts possessed himself of the single fact that her walking-beam had
been carried away by the shot, and he had not waited to ascertain
anything more. She was disabled, and he had been instructed to hasten up
the river as soon as he had assured himself of this fact, and made the
signal.

As the extent of the calamity to the enemy was unknown, the young
commander began to have some painful doubts in regard to the immediate
future. He had given the order to slip the cable, and he could hear the
rattle of the chain as it passed out through the hawse-hole. It was
evident enough to him that he had to run the gantlet of the party on
board of the Vampire in descending the river. As the shot had hit the
walking-beam of the steamer, it was not probable that she was seriously
injured in her hull, if at all.

Some of the enemy had doubtless been hurt by the fall of the pieces of
machinery, but Christy could not believe that the conspirators were
disabled, as the vessel was. The enemy might make an attempt to board
the Bellevite as she passed down the river, for the accident must have
rendered the party more desperate than before. In the face of a failure
to capture the Bellevite at her anchorage, which had seemed so easy a
matter to the leaders of the expedition, they would be ready to take any
chances of success that came in their way.

"Cable all out, sir," reported Boxie.

Not without some heavy doubts, Christy rang the bell to go ahead. He
had no one in the pilot-house with whom he could consult except the two
quartermasters, for Paul was in charge of the engine, and he could no
more leave it than the midshipman could leave the wheel. The propeller
began to turn, and the ship gathered headway. To add to the
responsibility of the young commander, his mother and sister had just
come on board, and were now seated on the sofa in the engine-room.

The Bellevite was moving down the river, and the only thing Christy
could do was to brace himself up to meet whatever might happen on the
trip. He did this at once, and a moment later he rang to go ahead at
full speed. He was approaching the bend of the river, and in a minute
or two more he would be able to see the Vampire. But Captain Carboneer
could no more see through the headland at the bend than he could, and
he hoped that the leader of the enemy had not yet discovered that the
Bellevite was under way.

The steamer increased her speed on the instant in response to the
signal, and she rushed forward at a velocity that would be fatal to the
Vampire if she happened to be in her path. But Christy was not disposed
to make an issue with the enemy when they met; he intended to defend the
Bellevite, if she was attacked, to the extent of his ability and small
force.

"There she is!" exclaimed Beeks, as the Bellevite began to change her
course to go around the bend.

Christy saw the Vampire as soon as the quartermaster, and he was glad
to find that she had drifted to the left bank of the river as far as
the depth of water would permit. As her engine was disabled, she had
no means of propulsion with which she could help herself. It was not
improbable that she was aground. She was not armed with a single heavy
gun, or with any gun, and she was entirely harmless.

Christy breathed more freely when he realized the situation of the
Vampire. Probably she was provided with one or more boats, and it was
possible that Captain Carboneer might attempt to board the Bellevite as
soon as he discovered her. The deck of the steam-yacht was not very far
above the water, and if a boat full of desperate men could get alongside
of the ship, it would not be a very difficult matter for them to mount
the side.

"Port a little," said Christy to the quartermasters at the wheel. "Keep
her well over to the west shore. Steady."

A moment later the steamer had her course for passing the Vampire, and
Christy left the pilot-house to obtain a better view of the situation
and movements of the enemy. It was not so dark as to prevent him from
seeing all that was going on upon her deck, for the Bellevite had to
pass within pistol-shot of her to avoid getting aground on the edge of
the channel.

Sampson and the rest of the old ship's company gathered near him, where
they could see over the rail. The oiler, as Paul Vapoor had instructed
him to do, had armed all these men with a cutlass and a revolver, and
very likely some or all of them would have been glad to make use of
them.

"They are loading into a boat on the port side of the Vampire, sir, and
it looks as though they intended to do something without delay," said
Sampson; and, as the steamer had come about since she was disabled, this
was the side nearest to the shore.

"I see that they are hurrying some movement with all their might,"
replied the midshipman, watching with the most intense interest the
operations of the enemy. "Sampson, get out half a dozen sixty-pound,
solid shot, and put them on the plankshear, twenty feet apart. Take all
hands with you, and hurry up."

The oiler asked no questions, though he might have been excused for
wondering what the young commander intended to do with shot without
powder. In a few minutes the shot were in place, as Christy had
directed. The midshipman was watching with all his eyes the movement of
the enemy, and, as the Bellevite approached the position of the wreck,
the boat darted out from the other side of her. It began to be exciting
for the middy, loaded with the responsibility of the safety of the
steamer, though he seemed to be as cool as Boxie himself, who had seen
some sea fights in his day.

Christy leaped on the rail of the ship, where he could obtain a full
view of the situation. The boat was approaching with all the speed the
oarsmen could command, and they seemed to be experienced hands. There
could be no doubt of the intentions of the enemy, and the midshipman
drew his heavy naval revolver from his pocket.

"Stand by to repel boarders!" he called to the seamen. "Pass up one of
those shot, Sampson. Have a hand mount the rail, each with a shot, at
the points where you have placed them."

"The ladies wish to know what is going on, Christy," said Paul, coming
from the engine-room.

"I have no time to talk now," replied Christy impatiently, as he saw the
approaching boat within ten feet of the side of the steamer. "Tell them
to stay where they are, and not come on deck!"

The boat was not a large one, and it did not contain more than a dozen
men; but the fine form of Captain Carboneer could be seen, as he stood
up in the stern sheets. Those who were not pulling the oars began to
discharge revolvers at the men now mounted on the rail; but the motion
of the boat and the ship seemed to defeat their aim, and no one was hit
so far as was known.

"When the boat comes alongside, let the man who is in the right place
for it drop his shot into it. Be careful of it, and don't waste the
iron," shouted Christy, when the decisive moment came.

"All ready, sir," responded the men along the rail.

"You are the man, Boxie! You are in the right place for the first shot,"
added the midshipman.

Boxie was next to him, and it would be Christy's turn next if the old
man failed to do good work with his shot. The boat came alongside, and
a bowman fastened his boathook at the side of the ship, and held it in
place. At the same moment Boxie let drive his sixty-pound shot; but he
ought to have waited an instant longer, for the missile dropped
harmlessly into the river.

The bowman had not obtained a good hold, and he lost it, so that the
boat began to drift astern. Captain Carboneer shouted his orders, and
the man got a new hold, and this time it was at the painter of the boat
in which Sampson had brought off Mr. Watts and the ladies. It had been
forgotten in the excitement of the moment, but the rope afforded a good
hold to several men who had grasped it.

At this thrilling moment, a man wearing a frock-coat discharged a
revolver at Christy, who was standing on the rail above him, and then,
seizing the painter in the hands of the men, he climbed briskly to the
accommodation steps, which had been hoisted up, but not taken on board.

Christy was in the most dangerous position on board, for he seemed to
be the target for all who could use their revolvers. But the young
commander was not asleep, though he had given no order for the last
minute or two. The boat was directly under him, and he had put his
pistol in his hip-pocket, in order to take up the solid shot at his
feet. It was heavy, but he lifted it over his head without any
difficulty, and launched it into the boat with all the force he could
give to it.

"On deck, there! Let go that painter!" shouted Christy, as he pitched
his missile from his hands.

He was in a position so favorable for the operation that he could not
well miss his aim, and the shot crashed through the bottom of the boat,
carrying down one of the enemy with it. It did not make a round hole in
the bottom of the boat, it was afterwards ascertained, as it might if
it had been fired from one of the broadside guns, but it tore off the
planking, and made a hole as big as the head of a flour-barrel.

"Lay hold of that man on the accommodation ladder!" shouted Christy,
without waiting to observe the effect of his shot, for the man who had
succeeded in mounting the side was armed with a dangerous weapon, which
he was likely to use as soon as he found the opportunity.

The men forward of the point where the boat had come alongside had been
ordered aft, and a couple of them dragged the venturesome officer, as
his frock-coat indicated that he was, to the deck. Christy was almost
sure this man was Haslett, who had certainly set a bold example to his
companions in the boat. He was quickly secured, and by no gentle hands.
His hands were tied behind him, and he was made fast to the rail, where
he was likely to be harmless during the rest of the trip.

It was no easy matter for a boat to make fast to a steamer going ten
knots an hour at least, and if the painter of the boat had not been
carelessly left where it could be of service to the assailants, the
affair would have ended with Boxie's unsuccessful cast of the shot. But
as soon as the painter was let go, an order which Sampson hastened to
execute, the enemy's hold upon the ship was lost, though they were using
boathooks and other implements to make sure of their grasp. The boat was
left behind by the ship, though not till the hole had been stove in her
bottom.

"Beg pardon, Mr. Passford, for missing my heave with the shot," said
Boxie, on the deck; and the veteran's heart seemed to be almost broken
by his failure.

"You are very excusable, Boxie; one can't expect to hit every time,
and you did very well," replied Christy, who had suddenly passed from
painful doubt and uncertainty to exultation and exaltation at the
victory achieved. "We are all right now."

"But the enemy are not," added Sampson, who had mounted the rail after
he had secured the prisoner. "They are all afloat."

"They will get ashore in some way, or back to the Vampire," replied
Christy, and he descended to the deck, and hastened to the engine-room.




CHAPTER XII

THE PRISONER OF WAR


"What in the world have you been doing, Christy?" asked Mrs. Passford,
as her son entered the engine-room; and her anxiety was visible in her
tones and looks as she spoke.

"We have been repelling boarders, mother," replied the middy, his face
wreathed in smiles.

"What do you mean by that, my son?" inquired his mother.

"Well, mother, you are the daughter of a distinguished naval officer,
and it seems to me you must understand what repelling boarders means,"
answered the young commander, laughing merrily; and no one in the
engine-room could fail to see that he was in the highest state of
exhilaration, now that the safety of the ship had been assured.

"Of course, I know what it means," added the lady.

"And I don't mean boarders at the hotel, who are repelled by strong
butter and tough steaks," chuckled Christy.

"I wish you would explain yourself, my son."

"I will, mother mine. The fellows we fired at when we were at anchor
have just attempted to board the Bellevite, and thus obtain possession
of her, as they failed to do in Mobile Bay, as well as at our anchorage
in the Hudson." And he proceeded to explain in detail all that had
occurred on board and alongside.

"My dear boy, I had no idea that you had been engaged in a battle!"
exclaimed the fond mother.

"It wasn't much of a battle, though a good many pistol-shots were fired
at us; but a sixty-pound shot did the business on our side, and we left
the enemy, or a portion of them, paddling in the river, and trying to
keep their heads above water. But I must not stay here, for I have to
look out for the steering of the ship," continued Christy, as he moved
towards the door.

"You whipped them out, did you, midshipman?" added the engineer.

"We did; and there isn't any doubt of it. I shouldn't wonder if some of
them had lost the number of their mess. But I think it is settled for
the present that Captain Carboneer don't go to sea in the Bellevite. By
the way, I had forgotten that we took a prisoner, and perhaps he will be
willing to tell us something more about his enterprise."

"Who is the prisoner?" asked Mrs. Passford.

"He is an officer, I judge, for he wore a frock-coat."

"The party could not have had a great many officers. It was not the
captain, was it?"

"No; I am sure it is not he. I think it must be the naval officer whom
Captain Carboneer called Haslett; but I have not seen him except as he
was shinning up the painter of the boat. You can go on deck if you like,
mother and Florry, or you may come with me into the pilot-house," added
Christy.

The engineer had to remain on duty, and Miss Florry mildly objected to
leaving her present comfortable position on the sofa of the engine-room;
but as her mother wished to go with her brother, she felt obliged to go
with her.

Christy gave his mother and sister places on the sofa abaft of the
wheel, and then looked into the position of the steamer. But the two
quartermasters had so often steered the steamer up and down the river
that they had done very well, and there was no especial need of the
midshipman as a pilot. The Bellevite was not going at anything like her
best speed, or at her usual rate at sea. As she was going, it was about
a four-hours' run to New York, and Christy was not in a hurry to get to
his destination.

"Beeks, we have a prisoner, and I should like to take his measure," said
Christy to the senior quartermaster. "You may go aft and ask Sampson to
bring him into the pilot-house."

"Bring him into the pilot-house," repeated the man, as he left the
apartment.

"What are you going to do with your prisoner, Christy?" asked Mrs.
Passford.

"I shall hand him over to the proper officers, and they can do what they
please with him," replied the middy. "I don't want him: do you, mother?"

"What should I want of him?"

"Perhaps you want him, Florry?" asked Christy of his sister.

"I am sure I don't," she replied, pouting.

"Perhaps you will want him when you have seen him," added the middy
roguishly.

At this moment Sampson appeared at the door of the pilot-house,
conducting his prisoner, whose hands were still tied behind him. Christy
did not see him at first, for he was looking at his sister; but her
pretty face suddenly turned crimson, and her brother heard the sound of
footsteps in the apartment.

As soon as he saw the prisoner, he started back in astonishment, though
perhaps there was no particular reason to be surprised. It was not Mr.
Haslett, as he had supposed, and it certainly was not Captain Carboneer.
But it was Major Lindley Pierson, late commandant of Fort Gaines.
Christy had not expected to meet him, and that was the only reason why
he was astonished.

"Major Pierson!" exclaimed the midshipman, as soon as he had in some
degree recovered from his astonishment. "I believe we have met before
somewhere."

"Without a doubt we have, Captain Passford," replied the major, who no
longer belonged to the Mulgate family.

"Not a captain, if you please; but I am none the less glad to see you on
that account. This is really a very unexpected pleasure."

"And quite as unexpected to me, I assure you, especially to meet the
ladies," added the prisoner as he bowed low to Mrs. Passford and her
daughter. "I had hoped I might meet Mrs. and Miss Passford before I
returned to the South."

"And you had even hoped to take one of them back with you as a passenger
in the Bellevite," Christy interpolated, with great good nature.

Major Pierson looked at him with a start, and it was his turn to be
astonished. He was a prisoner, but he had the privilege of wondering how
Christy knew so much about his affairs.

"Captain Carboneer is a very obstinate man, and did not take kindly to
the carrying of lady passengers in a man-of-war; but I think he was
right, though my view may be of no consequence to you," added the young
officer. "I have the highest opinion of Captain Carboneer, for he is a
solid, substantial man. By the way. Major Pierson, who is he?"

"He is Captain Carboneer," replied the major discreetly.

"Perhaps he is Captain Carboneer; I don't know: things are not always
what they seem, and I find that persons are not, either. Hasn't that
been your experience, Mr. Mulgate--I beg your pardon, Major Pierson?"

The prisoner frowned, and gave a fierce glance at the midshipman, as
though he felt like annihilating him with a look. But he evidently
considered just then that he was in the presence of the ladies, and
perhaps that the flash of his eagle eye would not kill his tormentor,
as the young man seemed to have become.

"I am your prisoner, or somebody's prisoner, Captain Passford, and the
tables are turned against me. Of course, you don't expect me to give
information that will be of use to the enemies of my country."

"Of course not."

"When you were my prisoner, I think I treated you like a gentleman,"
added Major Pierson.

"I think you did, sir; and that reminds me that your hands are tied
behind you. You were so kind as to release me from my bonds when I was
in your power"--

"And it was the stupidest thing I ever did in my life," interposed the
prisoner, with some bitterness.

"I am not familiar with the events of your life, and I cannot gainsay
your remark."

"You did not scruple to turn our own guns against us."

"As you would have done if you had succeeded in capturing the
Bellevite," added Christy, smartly. "This time makes twice that you did
not capture her."

"The third time may not fail."

"It may not; but I must be as magnanimous as you were. Sampson, release
the gentleman."

"Thank you, Captain Passford; that is no more than I did for you when
you were in the same situation."

"But I suppose you will not undertake to capture this ship after I
have done as well by you as you did by me. I intend to treat you like a
gentleman, though the fortunes of war are against you. Now, perhaps you
will not object to answering a question or two, in which there can be no
treason."

"I must be my own judge of the questions," replied the major, rather
haughtily.

"Certainly, sir; and I shall not insist upon your answering any
question. Was any one on board of the Vampire killed in this affair?"

"No one was killed."

"Were any wounded?"

"I am sorry to say that three were injured by the falling of the pieces
of the walking-beam."

"Seriously?"

"Two slightly, and one severely."

"Thank you, major."

"Of course, I am not informed of the fate of those in the boat when it
was sunk," added the prisoner.

"I think no one was badly hurt in that part of the affair," said
Christy.

"Perhaps it will be of interest to you to know that Private Passford,
formerly of my command, was the one who was severely wounded on board of
the Vampire."

"Corny!" exclaimed Mrs. Passford.

"I am sorry to say that he was struck on the shoulder by a fragment of
the machinery," replied the major, very politely, as he bowed low to the
lady.

"Poor Corny!" ejaculated Miss Florry. "Is he very badly wounded, Major
Pierson?"

"I do not know how seriously, but I am afraid he cannot use that
shoulder for a long time." replied the prisoner, fixing a look of
admiration upon her, as if he were glad to have the privilege of looking
at her without causing any remark.

"I am so sorry for him. Corny was always real good to me when I have
been at Glenfield," added the fair girl, and she actually shed some
sympathetic tears as she thought of his wounded shoulder. "Can we not
do something for him, mother?"

"I shall be very glad to have him removed to the house, and I will take
care of him till he gets well. I don't know whether this can be done or
not. Perhaps Major Pierson can inform me."

"If your kind hearts prompt you to do this for one who is in arms
against the government, I have no doubt it can be managed. He can
give his parole, and that will make it all right."

"He is my nephew, and I would do as much for him as I would for my own
son," replied Mrs. Passford heartily.

"And I as much as I would for my brother," added Miss Florry.

Everything was pleasant so far, though all the Passfords were worried
about poor Corny, who had been with the ladies only the evening before.




CHAPTER XIII

AFTER THE BATTLE


It was six o'clock in the morning when the Bellevite let go her anchor
off Twentieth Street, as the young commander decided to do after some
consultation with Paul Vapoor, who was his senior in years if not in
wisdom. He did not suppose the steamer would be allowed to anchor at the
Navy Yard without orders to that effect. His father had not returned
from the city. Though he held no office, Captain Passford was as busy
with public affairs as though he had been the collector of the port.

No one but the ladies had slept any during the trip; but they had been
on deck some time when the steamer anchored. Christy had been very much
in doubt as to what he should do with the Bellevite when he reached his
destination, and he was glad to see his mother when she came out of the
cabin. Though he was still hardly more than a boy, he believed in his
mother, and it had not yet occurred to him that he knew more than she
did. He stated his difficulty to her, for Paul had been as much in doubt
as the midshipman.

"I think it is a very easy question to answer, Christy," replied Mrs.
Passford, with a smile. "Where have you anchored?"

"Off Union Square, or very near it, I should think," replied Christy.

"You know that your father stays at the St. James Hotel when he is in
the city," she added. "The only thing you can do is to find him, and let
him decide what is to be done with the Bellevite."

"I did not think of that," added the midshipman. "I will get out a boat
at once, and go on shore."

"Florry and I will go with you," continued Mrs. Passford. "We have
nothing to do here, and I should like to return to Bonnydale as soon as
possible. But what will you do with your prisoner, Christy?"

"I shall do nothing with him. Sampson is in charge of him, and I am sure
he will not take his eye off the major while he remains on board."

The port-quarter boat was lowered into the water, and a couple of the
old sailors took their places in her. The ladies were assisted to their
seats, and Christy, after he had informed the engineer that he was in
command during his absence, leaped into the boat, and it was pulled to
the nearest pier. A carriage was called, and the party were driven to
the hotel. It was half-past six, and Christy was informed that his
father had not yet come down. Word was sent up to him, and the son went
to his room, where he found him only half dressed.

"I did not expect to see you at this time in the morning, my son," said
the owner of the Bellevite. "How did you come down so early?"

"I came in the Bellevite; and she is at anchor in the stream off
Twentieth Street, father," replied Christy.

"In the Bellevite!" exclaimed Captain Passford, with the nearest thing
to a frown that ever appeared on his brow in the presence of any member
of his family. "I don't quite understand how"--

"An attempt was made to capture her last night, father, and I thought it
best to make sure of her," interposed the midshipman.

"To capture her!" ejaculated Captain Passford, suspending his toilet,
and gazing into the face of his son. "I think you must have dreamed
that, Christy."

"Perhaps I did, father; but we captured one prisoner of rank in my
dream, and he is on board now, closely guarded by Sampson," replied
Christy, laughing in his excitement. "Mother and Florry were on board,
and they are down in the parlor waiting to see you."

"Do you mean that an attempt was really made to capture the Bellevite
last night?" asked the captain, as if unable to credit the astounding
intelligence.

"Of course I can prove all I say by many witnesses. Mr. Watts is on
board, and he has been dreaming too if I have. Paul Vapoor is another
dreamer, to say nothing of eight or ten more on board," added Christy.

Captain Passford completed dressing himself about as quick as he had
probably ever done since he became a millionnaire, and attended Christy
down to the parlor, where he gave his wife and daughter an affectionate
reception.

"But our boy tells me that some one has been trying to obtain possession
of the Bellevite, Julia; and it seems to me hardly possible that such an
attempt should be made so far up the river," said Captain Passford, as
soon as he was able to allude to the subject.

"But it is quite true, Horatio; and our boy has behaved like a hero, if
he is our son," replied the lady, bestowing a glance of pride upon the
midshipman.

"He says he has a prisoner on board," added the captain.

"And who do you think that prisoner is, Horatio?" asked Mrs. Passford.

"Is it Jeff Davis?" he inquired, with a smile.

"Not exactly; but it is Major Lindley Pierson."

"Indeed? Then I begin to see through the matter," replied Captain
Passford. "He failed to obtain the steamer in Mobile Bay, and he came
up here after her. But I should like to hear the particulars of this
affair."

"And poor Corny Passford was wounded in the shoulder," said Florry, who
had hardly spoken before.

"You don't mean that you had a fight, Christy?" demanded the captain,
looking quite serious.

"Not much of a fight, father; we fired the long gun once, and disabled
an old steamer, and we sunk a boat that was trying to lay us aboard."

"Then it was a more serious affair than I had supposed."

"But, father, I think we had better be going on board; and I can tell
you the story on the way just as well as here," suggested Christy.

"But you must have your breakfast before you go, for there is nothing to
eat on board of the steamer," replied Captain Passford, as he led the
way down into the restaurant.

While they were waiting for the meal to be served, the captain went to
the house of a military officer, with whom he was intimately acquainted,
and requested him to take the prisoner off his hands. After the meagre
details of the affair he gave, the officer offered to put a company on
board of the steamer for her protection; but the captain thought this
was unnecessary.

After the breakfast, the party took a carriage for the pier. On the way
the captain ordered a supply of cooked provisions to be sent down to the
boat for the use of the men on board of the Bellevite. With this supply
the party went on board. On the way Christy had told his story, and by
the time they went on board Captain Passford had learned all about the
affair.

He had received the order to deliver the steamer at the Navy Yard on the
following Monday, and he decided to return to Bonnydale in her. Enough
of the former members of the ship's company could be obtained in a few
hours to hold the vessel against any enemy that was likely to appear
in the river. As the owner was now on board, the engineer put on full
steam, and she reached her anchorage, as indicated by the buoy of the
cable which had been slipped. It was hauled in, and the Bellevite was
replaced in her former position.

The tremendous report of the great gun in the small hours of the morning
had startled all the people in the vicinity, though it was not till they
left their beds that the news was conveyed to them. A party in the town
just below the scene of the disaster to the Vampire had been collected,
and they had taken a steamer to explore the river in search of the bold
actors in the affair, as soon as the facts were known in the vicinity.
The steamer had been running up and down the river since six in the
morning.

When the Bellevite passed up the river, she was promptly recognized
by the investigating party on board of the Alert, which followed the
steamer up to her anchorage. She came alongside some time after the crew
had fished up the cable; but Captain Passford warned her to keep off as
soon as he discovered her intention to come alongside. She was a small
steamer, and had at least twenty men on her deck, so that the captain
thought it necessary to learn her object before she came any nearer.

A boat with two men was sent from the Alert, and one of them was
permitted to come on board. This one proved to be Captain Mainhill, with
whom the owner of the Bellevite was well acquainted. He was a wealthy
and patriotic man, though rather too old to be engaged in active service
for his country.

"I thought you might be representatives of the Southern Confederacy, and
I was rather shy of you," said Captain Passford, as he took the hand of
his neighbor. "I should not have been so cautious if I had met you last
evening."

"We have been looking for the gentlemen who were engaged in this attempt
to capture the Bellevite," added Captain Mainhill.

"I hope you have found them, or some of them," replied the owner.

"Only a single one of them; and he is badly wounded. We have scoured
the river for miles without finding any trace of the enemy. I think they
landed on the east shore, and went over to the railroad, where they
probably took the first train that came along," replied Captain
Mainhill.

"Of course, they saw the Bellevite going down the river, and perhaps
they have gone down to New York to finish the job they begun here,"
suggested Captain Passford. "Do you know if the enemy lost any of their
number when the boat was smashed?"

But Captain Mainhill knew nothing about the affair on the river beyond
the fact that an attempt had been made to capture the Bellevite, and he
had not ascertained that more than one was injured.

"We found the Vampire aground half a mile below where the shot disabled
her," continued the leader of the expedition. "Her machinery was badly
smashed. She never was good for much, and she is good for nothing now."

"Did the enemy carry off the one who was wounded?" asked Captain
Passford, prompted by his wife.

"No; he seems to have been too badly damaged for that; they left him
at the house of a workingman near the river, and I suppose he is there
now," replied Captain Mainhill. "I don't know that there is anything
more that we can do, and we may as well go home to breakfast."

"Do you know where the wounded person is to be found?" asked Captain
Passford.

"I do; and I have seen him. He is suffering a good deal of pain; but he
is as plucky as a mad snake, and he would not say a word in answer to my
questions."

"I shall be greatly obliged to you, Captain Mainhill, if you will land
me as near as you can to the house where this wounded man is, and show
me where it is. Mrs. Passford will go with me," said the owner.

"Very glad indeed to do it," replied the leader of the searching party.

Captain Passford instructed some of the men on board to summon all the
former ship's company of the Bellevite on board at once that could be
found, and then went on board of the Alert with his wife. They were
landed in a boat just below the bend, and Captain Mainhill conducted
them to the house where Corny was said to be.

They found him there, and the poor fellow was glad enough to see them.
No doctor had been called, and nothing had been done to alleviate his
pain; but he was immediately removed to the mansion at Bonnydale, with
his own consent, and Dr. Linscott was sent for.




CHAPTER XIV

THE BEGINNING OF A CHASE


Major Pierson still remained on board of the Bellevite, for no officer
had been sent on board for him, as expected; and he was under the
efficient care of Sampson. He was subjected to no restraint, and he took
his breakfast with the engineer. But he was not a welcome visitor on
board, and Captain Passford would have been very glad to get rid of him.

The owner sought him the next time he came on board, when he was not so
busy as he had been before. But he said nothing to him about his mission
at the North, and treated him as a guest rather than a prisoner. For
reasons of his own, though not difficult to conjecture, he was very
anxious to make a good appearance before the father of Miss Florry,
and he was a gentleman in his manners.

"Major Pierson, I am sorry to do anything that may be unpleasant to
you, but I have not the means of holding you as a prisoner," said the
captain, after they had been talking of indifferent subjects for a time.

"I realize that I am a prisoner of war, subject to such restraint as my
captors impose upon me," replied the major.

"If you will allow yourself to be paroled, it will settle your status
for the present," added Captain Passford.

"As a guest at your house?" asked the major, his face suddenly
brightening up. "I shall be very happy to give my parole."

"Not at my house, if you please, Major Pierson; it would not be
convenient at the present time," replied the owner, astonished at the
suggestion,

"Then you will excuse me if I decline to accept a parole," replied the
prisoner, biting his lip as though he was not pleased with the reply.
"As a guest in your house, I should not wish you to have any solicitude
in regard to me."

"Very well, major; I cannot object to your decision," added the captain,
as he touched his hat and left the prisoner to the attentions of
Sampson.

He was kept on board of the Bellevite, now re-enforced by the return of
about twenty of her former crew, so that regular watches were kept, and
there was no chance for the prisoner to escape, and none for Captain
Carboneer to capture the steamer. Dr. Linscott soon relieved Corny of
his pain, but it was many weeks before he was fit to leave the house,
and then he was paroled. Captain Passford could never ascertain what had
become of the crew intended for the Bellevite, though it was supposed,
as they separated, that they found their way to some port where they
could ship for their chosen service.

On the Monday following the attempt to capture her, the Bellevite
was taken to the Navy Yard, and she was prepared for service. It was
understood that her former officers and crew would be appointed to her,
for they were accustomed to the vessel, and could do better with her
than any other. Paul Vapoor and Christy Passford had already received
their commissions and orders. Captain Breaker had been restored to his
former rank, and was to be the commander of the Bellevite.

It was two months before the ship was ready to go into commission.
Important alterations had been made below, and the armament had been
taken from her deck, substituting for it a Parrot midship piece, of
eight-inch bore, and carrying a one hundred and fifty pound shot, two
sixty-pounders, and two thirty-pounders. This was a heavy armament, but
the ship was strong enough to bear it.

Joel Dashington and Ethan Blowitt were appointed as masters, and were
to be the first and second lieutenants, while Christy Passford was the
third. Leon Bolter was made a first assistant engineer, and Fred Faggs
the second. Sampson obtained his place as a first-class fireman, with
the expectation of soon becoming an assistant engineer, for he was well
qualified for the position.

Captain Passford, though he had offered his services in any capacity in
which he might be needed, had been induced to withdraw his application
for the reason that he could be of more service to the cause at home
than he could in the field or at sea. He was a man of influence, and he
was needed in civil life. He was even able to do more as an adviser and
counsellor than in any public office, though he filled several of the
latter in the earlier part of the war. He furnished no inconsiderable
part of the money needed at particular times, and he was only less
valuable on account of his money than he was for his patriotism and
good judgment.

"Now, Christy, remember that you are an officer of the United States,
and make yourself worthy of the place you occupy," said his father to
Christy, on the evening of his last day at home. "Study your duty, and
then perform it faithfully. Perhaps I can tell you something of more
value than good advice is generally considered to be."

"I shall try to follow your good advice, father; and I mean to do my
duty; and it will not be for the want of trying if I fail," replied
Christy.

"You have sailed with Captain Breaker a great deal when you were in
a different relation to him. Now I must warn you that he has his duty
to do, and I hope you will not expect to be favored, or ask him for
privileges not granted to other officers," continued the late owner
of the Bellevite.

"I am sure I expect him to be impartial with his officers."

"I meant to have seen Breaker this afternoon before I came home; but I
had not time to go to the ship. For some of my own affairs I have had
three agents in England. I wrote them some time ago to obtain all the
information they could in regard to vessels, especially steamers, that
cleared for any ports of the British Possessions near the United
States," continued Captain Passford, taking a letter from his pocket.
"Two weeks ago an iron steamer sailed from a port in Ireland for the
Bermudas. This letter will tell you all about it, and you will hand it
to Captain Breaker, and give him my explanation."

The midshipman put the letter into his pocket without reading it. In his
chamber he looked it over, and found that it meant business, and he was
delighted with the idea of having something to do before he reached the
port for which the ship was bound, for the inactivity of the blockade
was not wholly to his mind. He slept as soundly as usual, for already he
had come to regard war as the business in which he was engaged, and he
had but little sickly sentiment over it.

It was a tearful parting with his mother and sister before he took the
train with his father, and it was a sad one with his father when he went
off to the Bellevite in the boat. But neither of them shed any tears,
for both felt that they were called upon to discharge their duty to
their country.

Captain Breaker had always trained his officers and seamen to perform
their duty in conformity with the discipline of the navy so far as it
was practicable to do so, and consequently his ship's company were very
nearly at home from the beginning of the voyage. He had received his
sealed orders, and at noon the Bellevite went down the bay on her
mission to the South, though no one on board knew where the ship was
bound. The crew had been re-enforced by as many men as she had usually
carried, and the first day was a very busy one in putting everything in
order. Christy had handed the letter his father had given him to the
captain, and after dinner he spoke of it.

"Did you read this letter, Mr. Passford?" asked the captain.

"I did, sir; my father told me to read it," replied Christy.

"It appears that a very fast steamer loaded with a valuable cargo sailed
from Belfast eleven days ago, clearing for the Bermudas. We shall all be
very happy to pay our respects to her; but I can say nothing till I have
opened my orders to-morrow," said Captain Breaker.

"If she sailed eleven days ago from Belfast, she ought to be well
up with the Bermudas, if she is as fast as represented, sir," added
Christy, hoping the orders would permit the Bellevite to look out for
the Killbright, as she was called.

The next day, as the observations indicated the latitude in which the
sealed orders were to be opened, the seal of the official envelope was
broken. Captain Breaker read the letter, and a smile came over his
bronzed face. The orders were evidently to his satisfaction; and
Christy, who was on duty near him, remembered what his father had said
to him, and asked no question, as he would have been likely to do under
other circumstances. But the commander was kind enough to call his
officers to him, and inform them of the duty assigned to the ship.

The government had received information which indicated the approach
to our shores of a considerable fleet of blockade runners, and the
Bellevite, on account of her reputed fast sailing, was to cruise for
a given time off the coast in search of these blockade runners.

"I have no doubt these blockade runners will go into the Bermudas,
especially the Killbright. If we go into St. George, we shall not be
allowed to sail till twenty-four hours after this fast vessel leaves,"
said Captain Breaker. "On the other hand, if we are seen off the port,
she will not come out."

"I don't see, then, that we can do anything about it, Captain Breaker,"
added Mr. Dashington.

"Captain Passford's correspondent thinks the Killbright is intended for
the Confederate Navy, and that she is commanded by a naval officer sent
out for the purpose," continued the captain.

But no satisfactory measures could be devised for overcoming the
difficulties on both hands, and the steamer sped on her way. In two
days more she was in sight of the Bermudas. It was almost dark when the
lookout sighted a steamer coming out from the islands. By the order of
the captain, the engine was stopped, and the steamer rested silently on
a calm sea.

"I don't think she has seen us yet," said Captain Breaker. "If she had,
she would have come about and run back into the harbor."

"She keeps on her course," added Mr. Dashington.

"If she has the reputation of being a very fast vessel, very likely she
believes that she can run away from us," suggested Mr. Blowitt.

"As I don't believe the vessel floats that can outsail the Bellevite,
I shall give her time to get well away from the port before the screw
turns again," said the captain.

"Mr. Passford," called he a little later.

"On duty, sir," replied Christy, touching his cap to the commander.

"You will have the midship gun charged with a solid shot, and have it
ready for use at once."

As the steamer in the distance still kept on her course, the screw of
the Bellevite was started. The chief engineer was called upon deck, and
the situation explained to him.

"We shall want all the speed we can get out of her, Mr. Vapoor," said
the captain.

"We shall have no trouble in making twenty-two knots, sir, with the sea
as it is now," replied the engineer.

"That steamer means to go into the Cape Fear River," said Mr. Blowitt,
when the chase had laid her course. "If she was going in at Savannah,
or round into the Gulf, she would go more to the south."

"I think you are right; but she has room enough to run away from us if
she can," added the captain.

It was a busy time in the fireroom, but there was nothing to do on deck
but watch the steamer. She had actually lighted the green light on the
starboard, and evidently did not expect to be overhauled, even if her
commander had noticed the presence of the Bellevite.




CHAPTER XV

A CHASE OFF THE BERMUDAS


All the officers on board of the Bellevite who had never been in the
navy had spent their long vacation in the study and practice of gunnery
and naval tactics; and the men had been carefully drilled by a competent
officer as soon as they reported for duty. But a considerable number of
the latter had served for years on board of men-of-war, and a few were
sheet-anchor men. The latter are sailors who have spent the greater part
of their lives in the national sea-service, and they were competent to
teach many of the junior officers.

Every day after the ship went into commission, both officers and
seamen were drilled, and the captain declared that they had all made
satisfactory proficiency. He was ready to meet an enemy with them;
but then the ship's company of the steam-yacht were of the very best
material. They were all intelligent men, and sailors to begin with, so
that the task of qualifying them for active duty was not very laborious.

Christy was even better fitted for his duties than many of the older
officers, for he was not only full of enthusiasm, but he was skilful and
scientific, as a rule. He neither asked nor expected any favors on
account of former relations with the captain and other officers, and he
was determined to make his way by merit rather than by favor. Besides,
he had already been under fire, and he had an idea how it felt. Though
he was as prudent and careful as circumstances might require, he had
proved that he was as brave as a lion, and that shot and shell were not
likely to drive him from the post of duty.

Every man was in his place at the midship gun, seventeen of them,
including the powder-boy, and Christy gave the orders for loading the
piece as though he had been in the navy all his life. The other guns,
the broadsides, were loaded at the same time. But just now Paul Vapoor
was the most important man on board, and he was rapidly making himself
felt in the increasing speed of the Bellevite. Captain Breaker estimated
that the steamer which had just come out of port was all of five miles
ahead. It was only seven o'clock in the early darkness of this latitude.
Whether the chase was the Killbright or not, it was impossible to make
out in the darkness.

If it was the Killbright, Captain Passford's correspondent wrote that
she was capable of making twenty knots an hour, as she had been built
more for speed than anything else, though she could hardly be a
profitable commercial venture. But even accepting this speed as the
difficulty to be overcome, the Bellevite would probably overhaul her in
two or three hours. The engineer felt that his reputation and that of
the ship were at stake, and could not think of such a thing as failure
in the first actual encounter with the enemy.

"We are gaining on her without the ghost of a doubt, Mr. Passford," said
Boxie, who was ready for duty at the gun.

"No doubt of that, Tom Boxie," replied the third lieutenant. "But she is
taking it very coolly. She has not yet even put out her lights."

"I suppose you know why she hasn't, Mr. Passford," added the captain of
the gun.

"I am sure I don't know," replied Christy. "If I was in command of that
steamer, and wanted to do just what she does, I should not proceed as
she does. But I am nothing but a boy."

"But you have got a long head on your shoulders, Mr. Passford, and I
should like to know, if you please, what you would do."

"I would put her lights out before I winked twice."

"Right, Mr. Passford!" exclaimed the sheet-anchor man. "I am glad to
hear you say that. The trouble with most of the boys is, when they go to
sea to fight the battles of their country, they are as reckless as young
wildcats."

"I think it is possible to use proper caution without being a coward,
Tom Boxie; and my father gave me a lesson on that subject not long ago."

"Eight bells, sir; and that steamer has had a good hour of running so
far. I will wager my day's grub that we are two knots nearer to her than
when she laid her course," added Boxie, delighted with the situation.

"I have no doubt of it. I think they are beginning to see it on board of
her. There go her lights! She has not a ghost of a glow in sight; and I
suppose there is going to be some monkeying about it, if she has
ascertained that she cannot run away from us."

"Most likely, sir; but this is not a good night to play tricks, for we
have a bright night and a smooth sea."

"As that steamer has such a reputation for speed, I have no doubt they
put a very valuable cargo on board of her; probably she has a good
supply of arms in her hold."

"So much the better for us, Mr. Passford. We don't fight for
prize-money, but when a man gets to be as old as I am, a good round sum
of money don't come amiss to him. But I am sorry to see that it looks
like a change of weather," continued the sheet-anchor man, as he hitched
up his trousers, and took a survey of the heavens.

The wind began to come from the west after it had been almost a dead
calm since noon. It looked as though a heavy shower was coming up, and
clouds of mist and fog swept over the ocean. The usual lookouts had been
doubled, but, in spite of all precautions, the Bellevite lost sight of
the chase when she could not have been more than a mile from her. But
this weather was to be expected in this changeable latitude. Captain
Breaker was as perplexed as any one, however skilful, must have been in
the same situation. It was impossible to know what the chase would do,
though it was plain enough, since she put out her lights, that she would
change her course.

It was over six hundred miles to Cape Hatteras, and she had room enough
to manoeuvre in any manner she pleased. The change in the weather hardly
amounted to a storm, and probably it would be all over in a few hours.
But the chase might turn to any point of the compass, and the Bellevite
was as likely to pursue in the wrong as the right direction. But the
first thing the commander ordered the chief engineer to do was to save
his coal; though he held to his course, and the ship continued at a
moderate speed till daylight.

As the wise ones had predicted, the shower was of brief duration. As
soon as it was light enough to see, and the fog banks had been swept
away, a sharp lookout was kept for the chase. If she was ahead, she had
outsailed her pursuer; but Captain Breaker was sure she had not done
this, for she could not have had confidence enough in her heels to adopt
such a course.

"Sail, ho!" yelled a man on the cross-trees, a few minutes later.

"Where away?" called the officer of the deck.

"On the port beam, sir."

Several officers mounted the rigging to obtain a sight of the reported
sail. She was at least ten miles off, and no one could make out whether
or not it was the chase of the night before. The captain ordered the
ship to be headed to the southward, and, after she had gone on this
course an hour, there was another hail from the cross-trees.

"Sail is a steamer, sir!" reported the lookout.

With the aid of the spyglasses, a long streak of black smoke could be
made out of the dark clouds that were retreating in that direction.
A little later it was demonstrated that she was headed for the coast
of the United States. Whether it was the chase they sought or not, she
needed looking after. The course was laid in a direction to intercept
the steamer, for her inky smoke indicated that she was not American.

In another hour she could be very distinctly made out, though the chase
had not been so clearly made out the night before as to enable the
officers to identify her. Paul Vapoor was in his element again, and the
Bellevite was doing her best. The two vessels were approaching each
other, and Boxie suggested that there would be "music" in less than an
hour.

The people on board of the strange steamer must have been as much in the
dark in regard to the caliber of the naval vessel as those on board of
the Bellevite were in respect to their confident rival. The chase was a
long craft, it could be seen now, with two masts and two smokestacks,
all of which raked in the most dashing style. She was rather low in the
water, and, if it had been in the days of the pirates, the stranger
would have been a fair ideal of the freebooter's ship.

"She keeps on just as though she intended to mind her own business, and
leave the Bellevite to do the same," said Boxie, as Christy took his
place near the midship gun.

"I have no doubt the Bellevite knows her business in this case, and that
she will attend to it in due time," added the lieutenant.

"Good!" exclaimed the sheet-anchor man, suddenly.

This exclamation was called forth by a flag, which was run up at the
peak, and which proved to be that of the Confederacy as soon as it was
spread out to the breeze.

"She is plucky, anyhow," added Christy.

"There is no lack of pluck in the South. But I wonder what she means by
setting that rag."

"Beeks, hoist the ensign at the peak," said the captain, and the
brilliant banner was spread in the morning air.

"I reckon both sides understand the situation now. I don't know the
captain of that craft, but he is an able fellow, and probably got his
education in the old navy, and not in the new one, where he is serving
now," continued Boxie.

"I think it is easy enough to see what he means," replied Christy. "He
ascertained last night that, fast as his vessel is, he cannot outsail
the Bellevite; and there is really only one thing he can do, and that is
to fight."

The lieutenant had hardly spoken the words before there was a puff of
smoke from one side of the chase, and a heavy report came across the
water. But the two steamers were still a long distance apart, and the
shot fell short, to the satisfaction of the captain. The chase had been
obliged to come to in order to bring her gun to bear, and she had lost
a little time in doing so. It could be easily seen on board of both
steamers that the Bellevite was gaining rapidly on the other.

"Mr. Passford, I am as sure of capturing that vessel as though I had
her now, and I do not wish to injure her any more than is necessary,"
said Captain Breaker, as he sighted the Parrot, and devoted especial
attention to her. "She is a very fast steamer, and she will be very
valuable in our navy in picking up just such vessels as she is herself."

Perhaps it was impudence for him to do so, but Christy could not help
casting his eye along the gun. All possible precautions were taken to
secure a correct aim, and then the lieutenant gave the order to "Fire!"

"Hit her, sir!" shouted one of the lookout men aloft, who could see over
the cloud of smoke.

"Where did it strike her?" demanded the captain.

"Right in the broadside, abreast of the forward smokestack, sir! She has
stopped her screw!" added the lookout.

"Mr. Dashington, get the ship astern of the chase at once," continued
the captain to the first lieutenant.

This was the work of at least half an hour; but the Bellevite was
running for the stern of the other steamer, as though she intended to
cut her in two lengthwise. The chase lay helpless on the water, unable
to bring her broadside guns to bear on her enemy.




CHAPTER XVI

THE CONFEDERATE STEAMER YAZOO


It was impossible to discover the nature or extent of the injury the
chase had received from the shot from the midship gun; but she had been
disabled, though it might be but slightly. The Bellevite dashed on, as
though impatient to obtain possession of her prey. All the glasses on
board were brought to bear on the injured vessel, which all hands
regarded as already a prize.

The glasses did not reveal any considerable havoc in the side of the
steamer, and the shot hole could easily be plugged when necessary; but
the commander of the craft did not yet give up the ship, for he seemed
to be engaged in hoisting her foresail and jibs, evidently with the
intention of bringing her about so that he could use his guns. The wind
was very light, and his chances of accomplishing his purpose were not
very brilliant.

"Mr. Dashington, you will call all hands, and be ready to board the
prize in three divisions when we run abreast of her," said Captain
Breaker. "Let Mr. Passford command the forward division; Mr. Blowitt,
the waist; and Mr. Calvert, the quarter."

The boarders were mustered at once, as there was no occasion to fire
again at the prize. Each officer arranged his men, and spoke some
stirring words to them. Men in the tops were supplied with muskets,
and all with revolvers and cutlasses. It was not believed that all
this force would be necessary to capture the prize, but there was some
evidence that she had a fighting crew on board, and the captain prepared
for the worst.

As the Bellevite came nearer to the prize, the sound of hammers was
heard, and it appeared that the engineers were engaged in an effort to
repair the mischief which had been done to the engine. It was still
impossible to see how many men she had on board, but Captain Breaker did
not estimate that she had a full ship's company, for vessels intended
for war purposes, escaping as this one doubtless had, did not usually
take their force on board at the beginning of the cruise.

  [Illustration: "Christy and Beeks on the Steamer's Deck."--Page 181.]

The three divisions of boarders were all in readiness, and all they
feared was that there would be little for them to do on board the enemy.
Captain Breaker was in the fore rigging where he could observe all that
was done on the decks of both vessels. The Bellevite went ahead with all
speed till the signal was given to slow down. The sea was not heavy, and
the captain laid her alongside of the prize.

"Do you surrender?" demanded the commander in a loud tone, but with his
usual dignity.

"I do not surrender!" replied the captain of the steamer.

"Boarders away!" shouted Captain Breaker.

Christy Passford was the first to leap upon the rail of the other
vessel, and then he dropped in the same instant upon her deck. At that
moment he was conscious that the steamer under him was moving, though
it might be the shaking which the Bellevite gave her when she came
alongside. On the deck of the prize, as he still taught himself to
consider her, he saw not more than thirty men; and with nearly three
times that number on the other side, it did not look as if it could be
a very hotly contested battle.

As Christy jumped down from the rail, Beeks followed him, and he was not
a little surprised to find that they were alone. But there was no enemy
at hand upon whom he could flesh his cutlass, and he sprang upon the
rail again. He found that his impression had been correct, for the
vessel was moving. She had already left a gap a dozen feet wide between
the Bellevite and herself.

It appeared that the machinery had been repaired, and that it was now
capable of doing all that it had done before. The steamer was the
Killbright, for the lieutenant saw the name painted in several places
about her forward deck. She had suddenly shot ahead very unexpectedly
to the captors, as they supposed they were, alongside of her. A puff
of wind had been favoring her before, and she darted away towards the
northwest. As she began to move, the lock-strings of her port battery
were pulled as rapidly as possible.

It would have been impossible to help hitting the Bellevite, with the
three guns fired into her at so short a distance. But the cloud of smoke
that enveloped both vessels prevented the captain from taking in the
situation. The crew of the Killbright were ordered to reload their guns
instantly. Whatever was to happen in the near or distant future, it
was evident that the dangerous steamer had not yet been captured, and
Christy did not think of her as a prize any more just then.

The Killbright crowded on all the steam she could obtain, and she
rapidly increased the distance between herself and the Bellevite. She
fired her three broadside guns continually, but it was clear to Christy
that the men had not been trained to this business, or they might
perhaps have sunk the naval vessel by this time.

The Bellevite fired her two broadside guns, and they made terrible havoc
in the upper works of the Killbright. But the strangest thing of all to
the young lieutenant, caught on board of the anticipated prize, was that
the Bellevite did not go ahead, and give the boarding parties a chance
to get on the deck of the enemy.

"I don't understand it, Beeks," said Christy as he found himself by the
side of the quartermaster. "Why don't the ship give chase?"

"I think she must be disabled, sir," replied the warrant officer.

"What could have disabled her?"

"I suppose she might be hit as well as this vessel," replied Beets, no
better pleased with the situation than his companion in trouble. "They
fired three shots into her while she was alongside."

"She must have been hit in a bad place, or she would have been alongside
of us before this time. But here we are."

The third lieutenant and quartermaster felt very much like prisoners,
though they had no evidence that the Killbright was a ship-of-war,
except that she had hoisted the Confederate flag, and fired upon the
Bellevite. But the rakish-looking steamer continued on her course, while
the Bellevite had not moved since the first broadside. She had already
made a mile, and the shots from her enemy did not seem to disable her.

She continued to run with all her speed, and the lieutenant felt the
deck quiver as though it was in danger of being shaken out of her. But
she was not followed by the Bellevite, and things began to look dark
and somewhat cheerless to Christy. The firing came to an end, for the
distance was becoming too great for it to be effectual on either side.

"If we had not jumped down from the rail when we boarded, we might have
escaped this scrape," said Beeks, who was even more disgusted than his
companion.

"It is no use to growl about it," added Christy, laughing. "Here we are,
and we can't help ourselves at present."

"I suppose they will let us go, won't they?" inquired the quartermaster.

"Let us go where?"

"Let us go back where we came from," replied Beeks, who seemed to be
quite muddled by his misfortune.

"You don't expect them to put you on board of the Bellevite again,
do you?"

"Well, no; not exactly; but this steamer is nothing but a blockade
runner, and such craft don't take prisoners."

"I hardly know what she is yet; she is a blockade runner, but she
appeals to be something more than that. She hoisted the Confederate
flag, and her people stood by their guns like brave men. I count myself
as a prisoner of war," said Christy, to the increased disgust of his
companion.

"What do you suppose they will do with us?" asked Beeks, looking as
though he had not a friend in the world, though he had always been a
very brave and active fellow when there was anything to do.

"I don't know, but I suppose she will run the blockade into the Cape
Fear River, and we may be taken up to Wilmington."

While they were talking about it, they saw a group of officers coming to
the forward deck, where they had remained since they came on board. They
appeared to be examining the steamer to ascertain what damage she had
sustained. Her bulwarks had been torn off, and she had suffered not a
little from shot; but she did not appear to be very seriously damaged.
At the head of the party was one who had a uniform, and dignity enough
to be the commander of the ship.

"Who are those two men forward?" asked this gentleman, as he called the
attention of the others to the two strangers.

No one knew who they were, and the captain continued to advance, looking
very sharply at Christy, or at his uniform. The lieutenant thought he
had seen the gentleman before, for it was quite impossible entirely to
forget one with so much character in his face.

"I am afraid I shall be obliged to call upon you, sir, to explain how
you and your companion happen to be here, for I was not before aware of
your presence."

"I shall cheerfully explain, Captain Carboneer," replied Christy,
recognizing the captain, and bowing politely.

"Ah, you know me? But I have not the pleasure of your acquaintance,
so far as I can remember," added the captain.

"We met under some disadvantages so far as you are concerned, for I had
the satisfaction of seeing you, though you did not see me," replied the
lieutenant, looking very good-natured in spite of his situation as a
prospective prisoner.

"I must beg you to explain still further, Mr.--I have not the pleasure
of knowing your name."

"Passford, sir, Christopher Passford, midshipman in the United States
Navy, and at present third lieutenant of the steamer Bellevite, which
you can hardly make out at this moment, though I remember that you have
seen her before," answered Christy, telling the whole story, as indeed
his uniform had already done, so far as his rank was concerned.

"I am very happy to meet you under present circumstances, Mr. Passford,
though I am not yet informed where I met you before."

"Perhaps you did not exactly meet me, Captain Carboneer; but, at any
rate, we were in the same boat together."

"I suppose we met, if at all, on the Hudson, in connection with the
Bellevite. Your people have not been as fortunate to-day with their
gunnery practice as on that occasion," suggested the captain.

"Now, Captain Carboneer, will you kindly inform me in regard to the
status of this vessel? Is she a naval vessel, or simply a blockade
runner?"

"She is both; and I am sorry for your sake to inform you that you are a
prisoner of war."

"I supposed I was."

"Perhaps you will be willing to inform me what became of Major Pierson
and Corny Passford--the latter a cousin of yours, I believe?"

"Like myself, the major is a prisoner of war. Corny was injured in the
disaster to the Vampire, as you are aware; he is also a prisoner, but on
parole, remaining at my father's house to be healed."

"I have to regret to-day more than ever before that we failed to capture
the Bellevite, for I find that she is even faster than the Yazoo," added
the captain.

"The Yazoo?"

"Formerly the Killbright, but now the Yazoo."

At this moment an officer came up and spoke to Captain Carboneer. As
both of them looked aft, Christy did the same, and, after studying the
speck he saw on the ocean, he was satisfied that it was the Bellevite,
coming down upon the Yazoo with all her speed.




CHAPTER XVII

A SATISFACTORY ORDER


Whatever had happened to the Bellevite, it was plain enough now to
Christy that she had repaired the injury, for the speck in the distance
was assuming the form of a steamer. The discovery was not calculated to
fan the hopes of Captain Carboneer and his officers, though the two
Unionists on board of the Yazoo were elated. The chase was continued
till the middle of the afternoon, when the Bellevite opened fire with
her heavy midship gun.

"Mr. Passford, your ship has opened fire upon us, and I will not compel
you to expose yourself to it," said Captain Carboneer, as one of the
shots from the Bellevite dropped into the water near the Yazoo. "You are
at liberty to retire to any part of the vessel you desire, with your
companion."

"Thank you, sir; you are very kind; and as I don't care to be shot by my
friends, I will go below," replied Christy.

It was hardly safer below than on deck, and it was not likely that the
resolute commander of the Yazoo would allow her to be captured as long
as he could make any resistance. Christy got the idea from the decision
he had observed in the face and expression of Captain Carboneer, that
the only way to capture the steamer would be to knock her to pieces. He
expected to be saved from the fate of a prisoner of war, but he was not
ready to believe that the Yazoo would be sent to the North as a prize.
She had not half the force of the Bellevite, either in men or guns,
and it had been proved that her speed could not save her. But all the
chances of accidents were to be incurred, and no one could predict the
final result.

Christy and Beeks went below, and seated themselves in the wardroom of
the ship. It looked as though it had been altered from the dining-saloon
of a passenger steamer for its present use. But the vessel was an
elegant affair, and Christy thought it was evident from what he saw
that she had been built for a steam-yacht by some British magnate. She
was not more than two-thirds as large as the Bellevite.

The sound of the firing indicated that the Bellevite was gaining on the
chase even more rapidly than in the morning. At the end of a couple of
hours more she seemed to be within a mile, or perhaps less. The Yazoo
was shaking in every fibre of her steel body, and it was plain that
Captain Carboneer was straining her to the utmost to effect his escape.

"It is beginning to warm up a little," said Beeks, as he tried to look
out at one of the round ports of the wardroom.

"It will be hotter than this before we see the end of it," replied
Christy. "Can you see anything?"

"Not a thing; of course the Bellevite is astern of us," added Beeks.
"But the Yazoo is not using her guns."

"How can she? She has not fired a shot for some time, and she cannot
without coming to. I should say she might as well do one thing as
another. She can't run away from the Bellevite, and she may as well
take her chances in a fight as a run."

"But the Bellevite does not seem to be handling her great gun at a very
lively rate," suggested Beeks.

"I suppose Captain Breaker wants to save all he can of the Yazoo, and
he knows that he can knock her all to pieces when he decides that it is
necessary."

"What is all that racket on deck?" asked Beeks.

"Probably they are getting a couple of stern chasers ready for use,"
answered Christy; and this explanation was soon proved to be correct by
the report of a gun at the stern of the Yazoo.

For the next half-hour, the firing from the Bellevite was more rapid,
and several crashes, produced by the striking of shot, were heard. It
was soon apparent that one of the stern chasers had been disabled; and
after a while the other ceased its noise. Beeks was so excited that
he left the wardroom, and found his way into what proved to be the
captain's cabin. More than one shot had come into it, and made no little
havoc. He found a port there through which he obtained a view of the
Bellevite. Whatever damage had been done to her, her engine was in
perfect order, for she was driving ahead at her best speed.

The quartermaster reported what he had seen to Christy, though it proved
nothing except that the Bellevite was all right, but everything began
to look more hopeful to the occupants of the wardroom. They had only to
wait, for they could do nothing. The pursuer had ceased to discharge her
guns, and those of the Yazoo were useless under present circumstances.

The situation was becoming more exciting on the deck of the Yazoo,
judging by the sounds that came from it. Then it was evident that the
Bellevite had returned to her former tactics, and was coming alongside
with the intention of boarding. Loud yells and fierce cries followed,
and then came the noise of a hand-to-hand struggle on the deck. It was
of short duration, for the ship's company of the Yazoo were outnumbered
at least two to one.

"I suppose we may go on deck now," said Beeks.

"I should judge that the fight was over," replied Christy, as he led the
way out of the wardroom.

At the companion-way they found two sailors assisting Captain Carboneer
to his cabin. His face was covered with blood, and he looked very pale.
The surgeon was close by him. Christy felt sincerely sorry for the
commander, for he was a noble and upright man. His protest had prevented
Major Pierson from attempting to carry out whatever plan he had in his
mind for the abduction of Florry Passford, and the young officer felt
grateful to him.

"Ah, Mr. Passford, the luck is on your side again," said the wounded
commander, when he saw Christy.

"Of course, I rejoice that it is so, but I am sincerely sorry that you
are wounded," replied Christy. "I must thank you for your interference
in behalf of my sister in opposition to the scheme of Major Pierson."

"How could you know anything about that?" asked the commander, bracing
himself up.

"I heard the whole of it."

"I see; but I did not consider that Major Pierson contemplated any
ruffianism," added Captain Carboneer, as the surgeon urged him to go
into his cabin.

Christy hastened on deck, and was warmly received by his fellow-officers
there. He reported on board to Captain Breaker without any delay, and
was warmly congratulated on his escape. He returned to his duty at once.
Paul Vapoor was inclined to hug him when he met him.

"I felt like a prisoner of war," said Christy, when he had told his
brief story. "The Bellevite was disabled, and I supposed it was all up
with me."

"A shot from the Killbright damaged our rudder, so that we could not
steer her; though we repaired the mischief after a considerable delay,"
replied the engineer. "But we have the prize."

"She was intended for a cruiser, and they call her the Yazoo."

"Whatever her name, she will not be a cruiser on that side."

The captured vessel was carefully surveyed; she had been considerably
damaged in the contest, but she was still seaworthy, and Mr. Blowitt was
appointed prize-master to take her to New York. All the arrangements
were speedily completed, and, when the prize had sailed for her
destination, Christy became the acting second lieutenant.

For the next month the Bellevite cruised in search of such craft as
the Killbright, and then she took her place on the blockade off Mobile
Bay, to which she had been ordered. Mr. Blowitt and the prize-crew had
returned, and all the damage done by the guns of the Yazoo had been
repaired, so that the Bellevite was in as good condition as when she
left the Navy Yard at Brooklyn. She captured several schooners, but no
very important prize. Many of the officers were disgusted with the
inactivity of the service.

In a letter from his father, Christy obtained the information that the
Bellevite was likely to be ordered to duty as a cruiser, for which her
great speed adapted her better than any other vessel in the navy. This
was cheering news to the discontented ones. But before any orders to
this effect was received, the ship was ordered to proceed to Pensacola,
where a very fast steamer was said to be awaiting an opportunity to get
to sea.

The position of the steamer was ascertained with no little difficulty;
but it was protected by the guns of the forts. Captain Breaker desired
to obtain better information in regard to the Teaser, as the negroes
said she was called. She was quite small, and carried only a single long
gun, and it was suspected that she was a privateer. On the evening of
the Bellevite's arrival, the weather was rainy, foggy, and thick. It was
just the night for a blockade runner, and the captain believed that an
attempt would be made to get out at this time.

The Unionists held Fort Pickens, and the Confederates the forts on the
mainland. The negroes said the Teaser was anchored at the mouth of the
lagoon, or very near it. This was not very definite, even if it were
accepted as true. It was very important that the Teaser should not be
permitted to get out of the bay, for she might do a great deal of
mischief to the shipping of the nation.

"I don't believe the stories of the negroes," said Captain Breaker, as
he was discussing the situation with his officers. "I know the port very
well, and I have no idea where the mouth of the lagoon is, or even if it
has any mouth in Pensacola Bay."

"Wherever the Teaser may be waiting her chance, this is a good night for
a start," replied Mr. Dashington.

"Of course the officers of Fort Pickens are on the lookout for the saucy
little craft," added Mr. Blowitt.

"Captain Westover is still on board, and you are to send him to the
fort, are you not, Captain Breaker?" asked Christy.

"Yes; as soon as he is ready to go," replied the captain. "He has given
all the information he has in regard to the Teaser; but he has not seen
her to-day, and he does not believe she is in the lower bay, but that
she is somewhere in the vicinity of the Navy Yard."

"If you will excuse me, Captain Breaker, I don't believe she means to
come out by the main channel, for her people know that the eyes of the
officers of Fort Pickens are wide open," suggested Christy, with a good
deal of diffidence.

"How do you think she will come out, Mr. Passford?" asked the captain,
with a smile.

"By Santa Rosa Sound, sir," replied the third lieutenant.

"Possibly you are right, Mr. Passford, though I do not think you are,"
added the commander, thoughtfully. "Santa Rosa Sound is about forty
miles long, and there is hardly water enough in it, up and down, to
float a raft, to say nothing of a steamer."

But later in the day, the captain called Christy aside, and had a long
talk with him, the charts open before them. It certainly did not look
like a very hopeful enterprise to take a steamer through such a sound as
that described.

"But we have no correct information in regard to the anchorage of the
Teaser, and I have decided to obtain it if possible. I propose to send
you to look into the matter, Mr. Passford," added the captain, settling
the question in that way. "Select your own boat and crew. But if the
Teaser gets by Fort Pickens, we may have to chase her to sea, and if on
your return you do not find the Bellevite, you and your men will remain
at Fort Pickens."

Christy was entirely satisfied with this order.




CHAPTER XVIII

LIEUTENANT PASSFORD IN COMMAND


Christy felt as much honored by the confidence reposed in him by the
captain as though he had been appointed to the command of a steamer.
But he had more than once proved that he could be safely trusted, and
demonstrated that he had judgment, discretion, and skill beyond his
years. He was not only brave and resolute, but he was faithful and
patriotic.

He went about among the ship's company and selected the men he desired
to assist him in his enterprise, and requested those chosen to say
nothing about the matter, for the lieutenant was aware that he should
have more volunteers than he could accommodate in the largest of the
boats. All would want to go, and the young officer would be teased and
coaxed, and all sorts of influence brought to bear upon him to permit
this and that one to be of the party. It was easier to be silent than
it was to reply to all the applications.

Christy selected a large whaleboat for the service in which he was to
be employed, and he had his own reasons for the choice he made. He had
received unlimited authority to adopt his own measures. The only point
that was strongly impressed upon his mind by the captain was that the
Teaser must be captured.

After supper the order was given to the third lieutenant to convey
Captain Westover back to the fort, or to land him at the usual place
near it. Nothing was thought of the order, though perhaps some of
the officers considered a dozen seamen, all armed with cutlasses and
revolvers, a large boat's crew for such a service. It was very thick
weather, and Captain Westover begged Christy not to land him within the
enemy's lines, which he promised not to do.

The men gave way, and the boat went off into the gloom of the evening.
Beeks gave his whole attention to the course of the boat, and Lieutenant
Passford was engaged in a very earnest conversation with the military
passenger. The landing-place seemed to be reached too soon, for Christy
had not finished his business. He landed with him, and together they
went to the fort, where the young officer had a conversation with the
commander of the force there.

"I hope you will not get into hot water, Mr. Passford," said Captain
Westover, as he came to the sallyport with him.

"I cannot say that I shall not," replied Christy, "but I shall do the
best I can to report on board of the ship with the force intrusted to
me; and I hope I shall have the Teaser with me."

"I hope you will. There are several small steamers up in the bay; but I
have not the least idea where you will have to look for the Teaser, for
we at the fort have not seen any such steamer lately."

"There can be no doubt of her existence, Captain Westover, for the
Bellevite was sent here to look out for her, as her speed is said to
be remarkable. But, good-night, captain."

"Good-night, lieutenant; success to you, and a safe return," added the
captain.

"Thank you," answered Christy, as he hurried down to the landing-place.

Among those whom the lieutenant had selected was a master's mate by the
name of Flint, who had assisted on board of the Bellevite in the affair
with the Vampire. He was a modest, quiet man, who made no especial
figure among his shipmates, though he had strongly attracted the
attention of his officer. Next to Christy he was the highest in rank,
and the second in command. Beeks was the next man selected, and he had
done all that was necessary in the preparation of the boat, including
putting into it slyly a supply of provisions, and a number of articles
which the lieutenant had designated.

On his return to the boat, Christy found his crew in excellent order,
for he had instructed Flint to allow no noise or disorder, as sailors
and young men generally are somewhat given to skylarking when not under
the eye of a commissioned officer. Christy took his place with Flint
in the stern sheets of the boat, and ordered Beeks, who was acting as
coxswain, to shove off and give way.

"I have no instructions yet, sir," replied Beeks, as he obeyed the
order, and headed the boat away from the shore.

"We have to make two miles east by south, and that course will carry
us parallel with the shore of Santa Rosa Island, variation included,"
replied Christy, who had been a diligent student of the chart, and had
written down all that it was important for him to remember, though he
had one of his own charts, or a piece of one, in the boat.

"East by south, sir," replied Beeks, as he put the whaleboat on the
required course.

Thus far, Christy had kept his own counsel, and not whispered a word
of his intentions even to the master's mate. He had no motive for such
heroic concealment of his plan, but he had not had the time to discuss
it with any person. Besides, though he had decided upon his course
in the beginning, he was too much in the dark himself to lay down a
definite plan; and his course must depend largely upon the information
he obtained from time to time.

He had examined the charts and the Coast Pilot very carefully; and the
facts he had obtained from the latter rather staggered him in regard to
the idea he had advanced that the Teaser might go out through Santa Rosa
Sound. It was not navigable for vessels with a draught of over four
feet, and it would have to be a very small man-of-war that could float
in that depth. Though it was now the time of the spring tides, they did
not add more than six inches to the height of the mean tide, which was
but a couple of inches over two feet.

Even before he took his place in the boat alongside the ship, he had
come to the conclusion that the Teaser, if she proved to be anything
more than a toy boat, could not go to sea through the sound, and she
was not likely to attempt it. He had said as much as this to Captain
Breaker, who reminded him that he was to ascertain if possible what the
craft intended to do, if he succeeded in finding her.

Flint did not manifest any desire to know more than the law allowed,
and he asked no questions in regard to the enterprise in which he was
engaged. In fact, one reason why he was chosen was because he had an
excellent habit of minding his own business. Possibly Christy was more
particular on this point than an older officer would have been.

"I think we have made two miles, Mr. Passford," said Beeks, when the men
had pulled about an hour. "Of course, I cannot be sure of the distance
run, for I can only guess at it."

"Run up to the shore, then, and let us see how far off we are," added
Christy.

In a few minutes the bottom of the boat struck on the sand, and it was
forced up far enough to permit the lieutenant to go on shore. Like most
of the islands in this part of the gulf, Santa Rosa was nothing but
sand, which in the eastern end is of a peculiar reddish hue. It is
little more than a sand spit for its whole length, though in some places
the wind has piled up mounds, or dunes.

"Come with me, if you please, Flint," said Christy, as he leaped to the
shore.

Flint followed him, as usual asking no questions, and, if he had any
curiosity in regard to the purposes of his leader, he did not manifest
it. The lieutenant glanced at the trend of the shore, and then walked at
right angles with it. No part of the island was inhabited, or even
occupied, except Fort Pickens and a Union camp. It was a dismal place,
especially in the fog and darkness.

A short walk brought the explorers to the waters of Pensacola Bay. It
was in vain that they tried to penetrate the gloom and the mist, and
nothing could be seen. Flint expressed himself to this effect.

"I did not expect to see anything," replied Christy. "I only came across
here to find how wide the island was at this point. I am satisfied that
we are about where I supposed we were. Half a mile to the westward of us
the island is more than double the breadth it is here."

"I see, sir; if you had found it much wider than it is, you would have
known that you had not gone far enough in the boat," replied Flint.

"Precisely so; I wanted to find where we were before I changed the
course in going farther to the eastward," added Christy.

Flint made no further remark, and they returned to the boat, and seated
themselves in their places. The lieutenant gave the order to shove off.

"We are in no hurry, Beeks; if the men are tired, you can stop longer to
rest them," continued the commander of the expedition.

The men scouted the idea of being tired after a pull of two miles in a
comparatively smooth sea. Christy told them that they might have some
very heavy work to do before they returned to the ship, and he did not
wish to use up their strength unnecessarily.

"Now, keep her east by north for a couple of miles, Beeks," continued
Christy. "That will be as far as we have occasion to go in this
direction. Don't hurry them; take it easy, for it will not be high tide
till half-past twelve, and we may have more time than we shall know how
to use."

The crew pulled very leisurely, and it was over an hour before Beeks
estimated that they had made the two miles. As before, Christy and Flint
were landed, and they walked across the island. But their walk was not
even half the length of the last one; and the spit was so narrow at this
place that the lieutenant was confident he had struck the point he
intended.

"This is our base of operations," said Christy, as he stood on the shore
of the bay. "We have got along very well so far, for it is not time yet
for the music to begin, if it is to begin at all. What are you about,
Flint?"

The master's mate had lain down on the sand at the water's edge, and
his companion was very much puzzled by his attitude. He wondered if his
companion had the stomach-ache, and was not able to stand up.

"I beg your pardon, Lieutenant Passford, but if you will kindly be quiet
for a moment, I hope to be able to answer your question," replied Flint,
in a low tone.

Christy complied with the request, and as he did so, he thought he heard
a noise in the distance, though he was not sure of it. He listened with
all his ears, and some confused sounds came to him; but he could make
nothing of them.

"I heard some sort of a noise," said Flint, rising from his recumbent
position. "But I can make nothing of what I hear. If there was a fresh
breeze, I should say that it was the surf."

"I heard it, too; but I am bothered to make out what it is. Did you get
an idea of any kind?" asked Christy.

"It sounded as though something of a gang of men were at work off in
this direction," replied Flint, pointing east of north. "I am almost
sure I heard the blows of hammers, or something like them."

"The noise I heard might have been almost anything," added Christy.

"What is there off in that direction?" asked Flint, pointing again.

"About north of us is Town Point, and just beyond it is Old Navy Cove,"
said the lieutenant, who had been up the bay in the Bellevite on an
excursion, and who had studied up all the localities.

"Possibly they are repairing a vessel there," suggested Flint.

"They would not do that over there, and certainly not on a dark night,"
argued Christy. "But we will soon find out all about it."

He led the way back to the boat, which he had ordered Beeks to have
carried on the shore. Then they proceeded to bear it across the island
to the bay, where it was put into the water again.




CHAPTER XIX

SOME TROUBLE ON BOARD THE TEASER


It was not a difficult thing for so many men to carry the whaleboat
across the island, and they were disposed to make merry over the novelty
of the task; but they had been instructed not to speak a loud word after
the party left the south side of the island. The noise to which Christy
and Flint had listened indicated that something was going on, though
they could not decide what it was. In the stillness of the night, and
in the absence of any roar of breakers, sounds could be heard a long
distance, though whether they came one mile or two, they could not
determine.

"Get out those cloths, Beeks," said Christy, as soon as the boat had
been put into the water. "Every oar must be very carefully muffled, and
you will see that it is properly done."

"I will have it done in a few minutes, sir," replied the acting
coxswain.

"As I said before, we are in no hurry, and you may take your time to do
it properly," added the lieutenant.

"Those sounds are still to be heard," said Flint, who had been a short
distance from the boat to listen for them.

"I hear them," replied Christy, walking away from the boat to continue
the investigation while they were waiting. "Some kind of a job is in
progress at no great distance from us. From how far off do you calculate
that those sounds come?"

"I think they must come a mile; and I don't believe I can guess any
nearer to it than that, though it is possible they come two miles.
I know little or nothing of the region about here. Suppose we should go
a mile north-northeast from this spot, what should we find there, Mr.
Passford?" asked Flint, apparently greatly interested in the question.

"It would be a point on Pensacola Bay, about half-way between this
island, where we stand, and Town Point," replied Christy. "I should say
it would be in the channel leading into Santa Rosa Sound."

"Precisely so!" exclaimed Flint, in an energetic whisper. "That's the
way they are going to take the Teaser out, and they are doing something
over there to prepare her for the trip in shallow water."

The master's mate was not aware that Christy had suggested to the
captain this way of escape for the Teaser, and he had abandoned the idea
himself. Flint had reached his conclusion from his own premises. They
discussed the matter for some time, though it was impossible to arrive
at any conclusion for the want of data on which to base their reasoning.

"All ready, sir," reported Beeks, coming up to them at this moment.

"How far is the entrance to the sound from Fort Pickens, Mr. Passford?"
asked Flint.

"About four miles."

"Then why should they choose such a night as this for their work?"

"The Bellevite, floating in four fathoms of water on the other side of
the island, could shell them out if they were seen, as they certainly
would be from Fort Pickens," replied Christy.

"That makes it plain enough," added Flint, as they walked towards the
boat.

"But I am not quite willing to believe yet that the Teaser will go out
through the sound. If she could get through at all, it would only be
after getting aground no end of times, and if to-morrow should be a
clear day, she could be seen anywhere on her course," persisted Christy.
"She cannot expect to make eight or ten knots an hour in that shallow
water."

The lieutenant ordered the men into the boat, after she was shoved off
the beach. They worked with such care that not a sound came from her.
The oars were shipped, and the sailors began to row. As instructed, they
pulled very slowly, though such work could not be done in perfect
silence.

"Look out for that binnacle, Beeks," said Christy. "The light from it
may betray us."

"You have not given me the course, sir," replied the coxswain, as he
obeyed the order.

"North-northeast," added Christy, as he settled back in the stern
sheets.

No one was allowed to speak in the boat, and the lieutenant set the
example of silence. But he kept his ears wide open, though the little
noise made by the oars and the rippling of the water prevented him from
hearing anything at first. It was so dark that one could hardly see
another in the boat. It was in vain that Christy watched in the gloom
for the glow of a light; for all was nearly total darkness in every
direction.

In about half an hour they began to hear the sounds which had attracted
their attention on the island, and they proceeded from directly ahead,
indicating that the operations, whatever they were, came from the
entrance to the sound. The workmen were not likely to hear the approach
of the boat while they were making so much noise themselves. In addition
to the sounds they had heard before, they recognized the noise of
escaping steam.

This last discovery made it certain that a steamer was there, though the
listeners could not know whether it was the Teaser or not. Both of the
officers of the expedition, in the uselessness of their eyes, made the
best use they could of their ears. Christy listened to ascertain if
there was more than one steamer present. In a whisper he asked Flint to
consider this question. There was no doubling of the sounds to indicate
more than one steamer.

For ten minutes more Christy listened and was silent; but he was doing
some very heavy thinking, for by this time the boat was very near the
scene of operations, if it could be a scene in that dense darkness.
Every sound, even to the speech of the men, could be distinctly heard.
Still nothing could be seen, and Christy knew that there was a point of
nearness where something could be discerned even in any gloom of night.
He permitted the boat to continue on its course, till he could very
dimly make out an object ahead.

"Way enough," he whispered to Beeks.

The coxswain raised both hands, and made a gesture with them, which
was the signal for the men to cease rowing. The sounds were now more
tangible. Occasionally there were a few raps with a hammer, but the most
of them were the orders of the person in charge.

"I don't believe there are more than a dozen men there," whispered
Flint.

"More than that, I should say; but even if there are two dozen, it is
all the same. Take off the mufflers from the oars, Beeks," continued
Christy. "Then give way with a will, and run for whatever may come in
sight."

Beeks obeyed the order, and in a couple of minutes the boat was driving
into the gloom at her ordinary speed. Something came into view a moment
later, and it was a small steamer.

"Boat, ahoy!" shouted some one from the steamer.

"On board of the steamer!" replied Christy.

"Are you the pilot?" demanded the speaker from the vessel.

"Ay, ay, sir," responded the lieutenant.

"I shall not want you now," continued the man on the steamer.

"How is that?" demanded Christy, as though this was an entirely
unexpected reply.

"I have concluded to make my way out through the sound, Gilder."

"Then my name is Gilder," added Christy, in a low tone.

"I have a plan of my own, and I reckon I shall make it go," proceeded
the captain of the steamer. "The Teaser don't draw much water, and I
know how to help her over the shoal places."

"When do you expect to get through the sound?" asked Christy.

"I don't know when; but I shall get through."

"But you will find a blockader at the east end of the island; and then
you will be as badly off as you are now," argued Christy.

"I don't believe there is any blockader there. Who are all those men in
the boat with you, Gilder?"

"They belong to the water guard," replied Christy, at a venture, and he
thought that would describe them as well as any terms at his command.
"They expected you to go out by the main channel to-night."

"No lie in that," chuckled Flint.

"I wish they would come on board of the Teaser and help me out, for my
men won't work."

"How many men have you?" asked the lieutenant.

"Just fifteen; the rest of my crew were to come on board at midnight,
half an hour before high tide. But the men I have with me won't work,
and I shall not be ready for them, I am afraid."

"What is the reason they won't work?"

"They say they shipped to fight the Yankees, and they are not going to
do such work as lighting up the steamer."

"Perhaps we can bring them to their senses," said Christy, as he ordered
Beeks to give way again.

A few strokes of the oars enabled the officers in the stern sheets to
obtain a full view of the Teaser, and she looked like a trim little
steamer of about two hundred tons. She was rather long, and she had a
very sharp bow. The reports gave her the reputation of being a very fast
sailer.

"Let every man have his arms in order," said Christy impressively, in a
low tone. "Give way with a will, and when you unship your oars have your
weapons ready, though I hardly think you will have to use them at
present."

As the boat dashed towards the little steamer, the sounds of an
altercation came over the water. The angry voice of the captain, if
the late speaker was the captain, and several others were heard in a
dispute; and as the boat came alongside the report of a pistol indicated
that the belligerents were in earnest.

Christy sprang upon the deck of the Teaser, with his revolver in his
hand. Half a dozen men stood in a group by the side of the engine-room,
confronting the man who had done the talking with the boat, as Christy
knew by the sound of his voice.

"We are not held by any papers we signed!" protested one of the men
forward. "We are willing to do our duty, Captain Folkner, but we did not
ship to burrow through the sand, and run the risk of being captured by
the Yankees. We shipped to run the blockade, and that risk is in the
papers."

"I shall take my vessel out as I think best, Lonley; and my men are not
to dictate to me what I am to do," replied Captain Folkner angrily.

"I am willing to leave it to Captain Gilder. You know as well as I do
that the rest of the ship's company would not come on board till the
Teaser was outside of Santa Rosa Island. We appeal to you, Captain
Gilder," said Lonley.

"Why do you object to going out through Santa Rosa Sound?" asked
Christy, willing to do the fair thing, since the mutineers had appealed
to him.

"The Teaser draws ten feet of water with her coal in, and she cannot get
through the sound in a week, if ever."

"Are you willing to go to sea by running the blockade, Lonley?"

"Perfectly willing; and so are the whole ship's company."

"But I won't take the risk of running the blockade. They put a fast
steamer on there to-day, and it is useless," replied Captain Folkner.

The situation was certainly interesting to Christy and his companions.




CHAPTER XX

COMING TO THE POINT


Captain Folkner of the Teaser was evidently somewhat timid, and he had
heard of the arrival of the Bellevite. Just now the large ships-of-war
which had been there were absent on their duty, though they were
expected to return at any time. There was liable to be some
unpleasantness at any time between Fort Pickens and Fort Barrancas;
but everything was quiet just now.

Flint had come on board of the Teaser with Christy, but none of the
boat's crew had attended them. The situation was very novel to the
lieutenant, and he did not feel competent to arbitrate between the
contending parties. Besides, he was not willing to believe that he could
be entirely impartial, for he had a personal and patriotic interest in
the issue of the quarrel.

The seamen, under the leadership of Lonley, who appeared to be an
officer, were the more powerful party, and the more to be dreaded. He
was disposed to decide against them, if he could get them out of the way
by doing so. They were willing to leave the matter to him, and he began
at last to see his way through it.

"The captain of a ship is the authority to be respected, Lonley," said
he, when he had made up his mind what to do.

"We might as well bury ourselves in the sands as try to go through
there," replied the leader of the mutiny, who seemed to be a very
intelligent man, and Christy concluded from his language and manner
that he was not a common sailor.

"That may be; but the captain is supreme on the deck of his own ship,"
argued Christy.

"We are not on the high seas, and the Teaser has not yet gone into
commission. It was only this afternoon in Pensacola that Captain Folkner
told his ship's company that he was going to burrow through the sand in
Santa Rosa Sound. We all said we would not go with him; but a dozen of
us came down with him when he told us that he had a way to float the
steamer through, and he was sure it would work. We did not understand
that we were to become mud-diggers. When we got here, we were satisfied
that his plan amounted to nothing, and would not work."

"I am satisfied that it will work," interposed Captain Folkner.

"The agreement in the articles was to run the blockade. If we got
through the sound, it would take a week of constant drudgery, which
we did not ship to do."

"Are you ready to do duty on board of the Teaser when she is in deep
water, Lonley?" asked Christy.

"Every one of us; and every one of the party on shore!" protested the
leader.

"Will that satisfy you, Captain Folkner?" continued Christy, appealing
to him.

"It would if I had the steamer in deep water," replied the captain. "But
how am I to get her into deep water if my crew will not work?"

"Run the blockade, according to the articles!" exclaimed Lonley.

"When are the rest of the ship's company to join you?" asked Christy of
the leader of the mutineers.

"They are coming down in boats at midnight or later; and we shall join
them then and wait till the ship is ready to take us on board. They will
come across from Pensacola to Navy Cove, and then walk till they come to
the Teaser."

"All right," said the lieutenant. "I will land you at Navy Cove, and you
can wait there till the rest of the crew come."

"I am perfectly satisfied with that arrangement," replied Lonley.

"But I am not," interposed the captain, angrily. "What can I do without
any crew to help get the steamer through the sound?"

"I have men enough to take care of you and the Teaser, Captain Folkner;
and the men in the boat will do everything that is required to be done
on board of the Teaser."

"That's another thing," replied the captain, appeased by the implied
promise.

"I can hardly blame your men because they are not willing to go through
the sound with a steamer drawing ten feet of water when there is not
more than six feet of water to float her," said Christy. "Besides, if
you do not get to the other end of the sound before morning, you will
be seen by some of the blockaders, and they could blow this steamer to
pieces, and kill half your people in a few minutes."

"It may be dangerous, but so is running the blockade," added the
captain.

"Going out in a dark night and spending a week in sight of the
blockaders are two different things. But we need not discuss the matter
any more. I will put your men on the point yonder, and then I will
return and help you out of your present difficulty. Am I to take off the
men in the engine department?" asked Christy, as he went to the side
where the boat was.

"No; the engineers and firemen are all right, for they were not called
upon to do any work out of the vessel."

Christy and Flint stepped into the boat, and the crew followed them.
There were twelve of them, and the lieutenant thought they were all good
seamen. He did not like to have them reserved for use in the Confederate
Navy; but he could not help himself then, and he soon landed the party
on the point. The situation had been explained to the crew of the boat,
and they had avoided saying anything to commit themselves.

Though it involved a risk to do it, Christy had dressed in an ordinary
suit of clothes for the occasion, and the party wore nothing by which
they could be identified as sailors of the navy. As soon as the boat had
landed its passengers, it returned to the Teaser at the best speed the
crew could produce.

"I had no idea that you had a plan like this in your head, Mr.
Passford," said Flint, as soon as the boat was clear of Town Point.

"I did not know it myself, Flint. It has all grown out of the
circumstances as we found them," replied Christy. "But I did intend, if
I found the Teaser without a fighting crew on board of her, to capture
her if the situation warranted such a step."

"But you came prepared for just this thing," suggested Flint.

"I came prepared for anything. I hoped we might be able to capture the
Teaser, but I did not expect it."

"I suppose you expect to do it now."

"Yes, I do; and I ought to be broken if I don't do it. I am sorry to let
all those men enter the rebel navy; and that is all that vexes me at the
present moment."

"Perhaps they can be picked up to-morrow, or later to-night," suggested
Flint. "From what I heard, I think she was to have a fighting crew of
about forty men. Of course they will try to join the steamer to-night
or to-morrow; and why not let them do it?" chuckled Flint.

"We will attend to this affair first, but I like the idea."

They reached the Teaser in due time, and all hands went on board of her.
Captain Folkner, with a couple of men he had contrived to retain, with
two firemen, was at work on his apparatus to float a vessel drawing ten
feet in six feet of water or less. Alongside he had a hundred or more of
empty barrels which he was sinking under the sides by hauling them down
with a line under the bottom of the vessel. He did the work partly with
his windlass worked by steam, and he had lifted the bow of the Teaser at
least three feet out of water.

Captain Folkner expatiated with enthusiasm on his plan, and explained
the details to the lieutenant. Christy saw that he had considerable
mechanical genius, but he certainly lacked a balance-wheel. The officer
had set him down as a timid man, but this conversation assured him that
the captain was a brave man. He was carried away with his idea, though
it was plain that he had not examined the question in all its bearings.

"When I have lifted the steamer four feet, she can go through the sound,
for I have taken a boat through that drew six feet. With your men to
help me, I shall get the casks down by midnight, and then all we have
to do is to go ahead," continued the enthusiast.

"Precisely so; and the Teaser is a screw steamer," added Christy.

"Of course she is; you have known her for two months, Gilder."

"When she has been lifted up four feet, she is to go ahead," repeated
Christy, in the tone of a musing man.

"That is what I said; she is to go ahead."

"But what is to drive her ahead? Is she expected to go of herself?"

"Go of herself? Of course not. She is to be driven ahead by her engine
as she always is," replied Captain Folkner, suspending the work upon
which he was engaged, and trying to see the face of the pilot through
the darkness. "How do steamers generally go ahead?"

"If they are screw steamers, they are propelled by the pressure of the
blades of the screw," answered Christy.

"And that is just the way the Teaser will be propelled through the
sound," replied Captain Folkner. "This steamer is to be a privateer, and
I own her. She has cost me about all the money I have in the world, and
I don't want to lose her before I get to sea. If I can get into blue
water with her, I am not at all concerned but that she will run away
from anything afloat."

"How many knots can she do in a smooth sea?"

"Eighteen, and perhaps more."

"Then she is not fast enough for that blockader outside. I saw her
at Mobile when she was a big steam-yacht, and they said she had done
twenty-two knots more than once."

"I don't believe a word of it; and I am willing to take my chances to
run away from her in the Teaser, if I can get out."

"If she is good for eighteen knots, it will not take her more than about
two hours to run through the sound," added Christy, very much amused at
the talk of the captain and owner.

"I don't expect her to go at full speed in that shallow water," said the
enthusiast.

"Do you expect her to go at all when she is hoisted four feet out of
water?" asked Christy, hardly able to keep from laughing.

Captain Folkner was silent for a moment, during which Christy thought
he must have obtained a new idea, for it looked as though he had not
thought of the working of the screw after all his flotation schemes had
been successful.

"I reckon the propeller will have hold enough on the water to make her
go right along, Gilder. I don't reckon you need make any trouble about
that," added the man of mechanical ability, rather sheepishly.

Christy had brought his boat's crew on deck, and directed Flint how to
post them. He thought he had paid proper respect to the talent of the
enthusiast in listening to his theory, and that it was about time to
bring the adventure to an issue.

"I shall not make any trouble about the screw, Captain Folkner, for I
don't think we shall have any difficulty about it. But I believe we had
better not hoist it any higher out of water," added Christy. "I mean
that I think we had better go out of the bay by the main channel."

  [Illustration:
  "He placed one of his men on each side of the Captain."--Page 233.]

"That means to run the blockade?" said the captain.

"That's the idea."

"Gilder, I want you to understand that I command this steamer,"
continued Captain Folkner, angrily.

"Right, with a little correction: You did command her, and I command her
now," replied Christy, as he placed one of his men on each side of the
captain.




CHAPTER XXI

ON A DARK AND FOGGY NIGHT


"I reckon I don't quite understand you, Gilder," said Captain Folkner,
very nervously. "I thought I was still in command of the Teaser."

"I shall not blame you for thinking so; but you are utterly mistaken all
the same," added Christy.

"Did you come here to take the command out of my hands? Is that the
reason why you sent all my men to Town Point?" demanded the captain,
getting an idea of the situation.

"If you had been a magician, you could not have come any nearer to the
truth."

"Who are you? I thought you were Gilder."

"I am not Gilder, though I found it convenient to answer to that name.
It is reported that the Teaser is a very fast steamer, and I wanted
her."

"Do you mean to say that you are a pirate?" asked Captain Folkner,
stepping back as if to emphasize his disgust at such a person. "I have
told you that the Teaser is a privateer, and it seems that you want her
more than I do; but I don't believe it."

"Privateers and pirates are about the same in this age of the world.
I am neither a pirate nor a privateer. Permit me to introduce myself
more precisely than I have thought it wise to do before. I am Lieutenant
Passford, of the United States steamer Bellevite; and I take possession
of the Teaser as a lawful prize. I think we need not discuss the matter
any longer, especially as the tide is high enough by this time to run
out of the bay. Disarm him."

"Say, what sort of a joke is this?" demanded the captain.

"If you are good-natured enough to regard it as a joke, I have not the
least objection," replied Christy. "But I shall be under the painful
necessity of confining you in your stateroom for the present, and I hope
you will make yourself as happy as possible, Captain Folkner."

The lieutenant directed Flint to have the prisoner conveyed to his
stateroom, and to have a man stationed at the door to see that he did
not escape, or do any mischief. The sentinel was to keep his eye on him
all the time, and not allow the room to be closed for a moment. The most
reliable man of the party was selected for this duty, for the captain,
in a fit of desperation over the loss of his vessel, which was his
fortune, might attempt some reckless act.

Accompanied by six men, Christy visited the engine-room, where nearly
all the hands remaining on board were employed. If there was to be
any trouble at all in completing the capture, it would be in this
department. Everything was in working order, and an engineer was on
duty, for the engine had been used in dragging the casks under the
bottom of the vessel.

Beeks was directed to arrest the men on duty, and the engine was handed
over to Sampson, who had been brought for such a position if the
expedition needed him in that capacity. But there was only an assistant
engineer and several firemen on duty, and these were disposed of without
any delay. They were all conducted to the wardroom, where they were
disarmed and a guard placed over them. A couple of sailors were detailed
to serve as firemen, and the work of taking possession was completed.

For the first time the lieutenant had an opportunity to examine the
prize, as she would be if he succeeded in getting her out of the bay.
She was certainly a fine little steamer, and, with the heavy gun mounted
on a pivot, she would have been capable of doing a great deal of
mischief among the unprotected merchant ships of the nation.

When he visited the cabin, he found two colored men there, one of whom
appeared to be a very intelligent fellow. He was very polite to the
lieutenant, and it was evident that he had no personal interest in the
success of the Teaser in the business for which she had been fitted out.
He was the cabin steward, and he had heard everything that had been said
in regard to the vessel since he came on board of her.

"What is your name, my man?" asked Christy, addressing the steward.

"My name is Davis Talbot; but no one ever calls me anything but Dave,"
replied the man, with a cheerful smile, as though he was not at all
disconcerted by the change which had come about in the ownership of the
Teaser.

"How long have you been on board of this steamer, Dave?" asked the
officer, much pleased with the intelligent face of the steward.

"About two months, sir."

"Where did this steamer come from?"

"Captain Folkner bought her somewhere in the West Indies, and brought
her here before the blockade was fairly established."

"Then she is an English-built steamer?"

"I suppose she is, sir; but I don't know anything about it."

"Then she has been here a long while. What has Captain Folkner been
doing all this time?" asked Christy curiously.

"Inventing, sir," replied Dave, chuckling.

"I see; he has that on the brain."

"The government threatened to take his vessel if he did not fit her out
and take her to sea. Then he hurried up, and got a crew ready; but they
had a quarrel last night, and most of the men would not come on board."

"Yes; I know all about that," added Christy, as he looked at his watch
by the light of the shaded lamp in the cabin. "I suppose you insist upon
serving the Confederacy, Dave?"

"I don't insist on anything, sir; I go where the ship takes me, and I
don't mean to quarrel with anybody."

"In other words, will it be necessary to put you under guard?" asked
Christy.

"I don't think it would do me any good, sir," replied Dave, laughing.

"Which side do you belong on?" demanded the officer, rather impatiently.

"I belong on Dave's side, sir."

"Which is Dave's side?"

"The side of freedom," replied the steward, with some embarrassment.
"I don't know you, sir; you don't wear the uniform of a Yankee or a
rebel, and the darkey gets crushed between the upper and the nether
millstone."

"Then to make the matter plainer to you, I am the third lieutenant of
the United States steamer Bellevite, and I have captured this vessel as
an officer of the United States Navy," replied Christy.

"That's all I want to know: the darkey knows where to go, when it is
safe to go there," replied Dave.

"Then if it is safe for you to go to the pilot-house, you may come with
me," added the lieutenant, as he led the way to the deck.

Beeks, with the men who had not been assigned to other duty, was cutting
away the ropes that held the casks in place, and had already turned
adrift all the raft of them alongside. All the rubbish the nautical
inventor had collected to carry out his famous scheme of floating the
vessel through the sound was cleared from the deck, and cut loose from
the side.

"I think everything is clear, sir," reported Beeks, as Christy appeared
on deck with Dave.

"Stand by to get up the anchor, then," added the lieutenant.

"No anchor down, sir," interposed Dave. "She is made fast to the buoy."

"So much the better. I suppose Captain Folkner did not trouble himself
about the forts, Dave, did he?" Christy inquired.

"Yes, sir, he did; Captain Folkner never slept a wink when he did not
have Fort Pickens on his stomach for a nightmare," replied Dave, with
a chuckle.

"But Fort Pickens is all of four miles from the entrance to the channel
of the sound."

"He was in mortal terror of the guns, all the same."

"How was it in regard to Fort Barrancas and Fort McRae?"

"Of course they would not fire on his vessel; if he went out in a fog
or dark night, he was to burn a blue light; and I reckon you can do the
same thing, though I don't believe it could be seen to-night from the
forts," replied Dave, who appeared to be willing to make a good use of
his knowledge.

"Then I don't think we shall have much trouble in getting out of the
bay," added Christy, as he went to the pilot-house, attended by Dave.

Since the lieutenant had declared as unequivocally as he desired who and
what he was, the steward did all he could to assist his new master. He
had served Captain Folkner for two months, for he said the commander had
lived on board all this time, and he had heard everything that passed
between him and his officers and others with whom he had relations.
He was about as well informed as though he had been an officer of the
vessel in whom the captain confided all his affairs. He did not wait to
have his knowledge dragged out of him, but he volunteered such
information as he saw that the occasion required.

He was a mulatto, and had plenty of good blood in his veins, though it
was corrupted with that of the hated race. He appeared to be about forty
years of age, and his knowledge of the affairs of the locality could
hardly have been better if he had been a white man, with a quick
perception, a reasoning intellect, and a retentive memory. It was the
rule with Union officers, soldiers, and sailors to trust the negroes,
making proper allowance for their general ignorance and stupidity, and
for particular circumstances. But some of them, even many of them, were
brighter than might be expected from their situation and antecedents.

The binnacle from the whaleboat had been brought into the pilot-house,
and Christy compared it with the compass in the Teaser's apparatus,
after Dave had lighted it. There was no disagreement, and as the tide
was still coming in, the head of the steamer was pointed to the
westward, which would be her first course down the bay.

The lieutenant felt that everything depended upon the working of the
steamer, and he was a total stranger to her peculiarities, if she had
any, as most vessels have. Taking Beeks with him, he began at the stem
and followed the rail entirely around the steamer, feeling with a
boat-hook along the sides. Sundry ropes, fenders, and pieces of lumber
were dislodged, and everything put in order about the main deck. Then
he visited the engine-room, and learned from Sampson that he had a full
head of steam. This careful inspection completed, he ordered the
quartermaster to cast off the fast at the buoy.

Taking his place in the pilot-house with Beeks, he rang the bell to go
ahead. The Teaser started on quite a different voyage from what she had
been intended for. Christy had studied up his courses and distances, and
had imprinted the chart of the lower part of the bay on his brain. For
the first part of the run, there was no obstacle, and no difficulty in
regard to the course.

The fog and the darkness were so dense that not a thing could be seen
in any direction; but he rang for full speed as soon as the Teaser was
under way. A leadsman had been stationed on each side of the forecastle,
though there was no present occasion for their services. Christy thought
everything was going extremely well, and he was reasonably confident
that he should succeed in his plan.

"Steamer, ahoy!" shouted a voice, coming out of the dense fog.

"That must be the patrol boat," said Dave, in a low tone.

Christy could not make any reply that would be satisfactory to the
patrol, and he decided not to answer the hail. He had rather expected
to be challenged in this way.




CHAPTER XXII

A VARIETY OF NIGHT SIGNALS


The dip of the oars of the guard-boat could be distinctly heard in
the pilot-house, and it was probable that the men in it could see the
Teaser. But Christy was not much concerned about the situation, and he
was not much disposed to give any attention to the boat.

"Stop her, or we will fire into you!" yelled the officer in charge of
the guard-boat.

Even this menace did not induce the lieutenant to ring his bell to stop
the engine. The boat was doubtless full of men, and as he could not give
straight answers to all the questions that might be put to him, it might
provoke a fight to attempt to do so, and he decided not to incur the
risk. His prisoners might make trouble if he reduced the guard in charge
of them, as he would be obliged to do to beat off the attack of the
boat.

"What is this boat here for, Dave?" asked Christy, as he peered through
the gloom to obtain a glance at the craft.

"To keep the people at Fort Pickens from sending out any armed force,"
replied the intelligent contraband.

"Do they think a boat full of men could do that?"

"No, sir; but they could give the forts on the other side warning."

The sounds from the boat had come from the starboard bow of the steamer,
and it looked as though the guard-boat had intercepted her by accident,
since it was impossible that they could have seen the Teaser in the fog
and gloom. As the steamer dashed ahead at full speed, the sound of the
oars came from a point on the beam. But the boat seemed to be wasting
her time, for nothing had been done since the threat to fire into the
steamer.

"If a vessel is going to run out she has to satisfy this boat that she
is all right," said Dave.

But he had hardly spoken before a volley of musket-balls passed over the
Teaser; and perhaps the officer in the boat intended that they should
pass over her. At any rate no harm was done by them. Then a rocket
darted from the boat up into the air, which could be dimly seen from
the pilot-house.

"What steamer is that?" shouted a hoarse voice out of the gloom.

"The Teaser!" yelled Christy, with all the voice he could command.

The boat did not fire again; and if it had done so the steamer was out
of its reach. But a minute later the boom of a great gun came across the
bay. Fort Barrancas had evidently opened fire in response to the rocket,
which had no doubt been sent up as a signal to notify the garrison that
a vessel was going out or coming in, and that her movements were not
regular. The first shot was followed by others, and a shot dropped into
the water near the Teaser.

"Let the leadsmen sound, Beeks," said Christy. The order was repeated,
and the reports were made known in the pilot-house. Sampson seemed to
be testing the capacity of the engine, for he was doing his best in the
matter of speed; but the Teaser behaved under the strain to which he
subjected her as though she had been very strongly built.

"By the mark eight," chimed the leadsman on the port side.

That was water enough to float a seventy-four, and there was no let-up
in the speed. In fact, it would not have been convenient to reduce the
speed while the guard-boat could be at no great distance from the flying
steamer. This was the report for the next mile at least, and Christy
felt that the enemy was at a safe distance from him.

"And a half six!" shouted the port leadsman, with energy, as though he
understood the effect his report would produce.

Christy rang to slow her down. The depth of water was the only directory
he had in addition to the distance run, which was very indefinite
without a knowledge of the speed of the vessel.

"By the mark six!" shouted the port leadsman, who was on the side
nearest to the island of Santa Rosa.

This did not induce the pilot to take any further action, and the Teaser
continued on her course at less than half speed. Christy looked at his
watch by the light of the binnacle lamps. It was half-past eleven,
and the Teaser appeared, as well as he could calculate it, with the
necessary allowances, to have made at least sixteen knots on the run
from the sound channel.

"And a quarter five!" cried the leadsman of the land side.

Christy spoke to Sampson through the tube, and the result was a further
reduction in the speed of the steamer, Beeks, who was at one side of
the wheel while the lieutenant was at the other, seemed to be a little
nervous as the depth diminished; and if he had spoken his thought, he
would have expressed his surprise that his superior officer was running
the steamer so near the shore, with the apparent intention of going
still nearer.

"Mark under water three!" yelled the leadsman on the port side, while
the one on the starboard gave "By the mark four."

"Shoaling fast," said Beeks.

"Yes; but as expected," replied Christy.

"Steamer, ahoy!" shouted a voice on the port side.

"On shore!" replied Christy promptly.

"What steamer is that?" demanded the shore speaker.

"The Teaser, prize to the United States ship Bellevite," answered the
lieutenant.

"Boga-hobble-good!" continued the man on shore.

"Rabble-gabble-weed!" responded Christy.

"There's a Chinaman on shore there; but I am glad you speak his
language," said Beeks, trying to repress his laughter.

"You are all right as to position!" shouted the islander.

"The guard-boat must be about a mile astern of me," added Christy.

"We will take care of that," replied the shore speaker.

Christy rang to stop the engine, which was done, though the steamer
continued to go ahead under the impetus of her former headway. The
leadsman on the port side reported two fathoms a little later, and then
there was a ring to back her, for there could not be more than two foot
of water under the keel. At this moment the peal of a twelve-pounder
came from the shore, and a little later the bursting of a shell was
heard astern of the Teaser.

Beeks was very much perplexed by the strange speech which had passed
between the lieutenant and the shore, and now by the discharge of the
gun on the island; but he was a well-disciplined quartermaster, and he
asked no questions.

"I don't think that boat will come any farther this way," said Christy,
as a second report from the gun reached his ears.

"Then I suppose the shots we hear are directed at the boat," added
Beeks.

"They can hardly be directed at anything out in that fog and darkness;
but I don't think the guard will be willing to take the risk of a chance
shell bursting near them," added Christy.

"On board the Teaser!" shouted a voice quite near the bow of the
steamer.

"In the boat!" replied Christy. "Sound that bell slowly, Beeks, to let
him know where we are."

The ripple of oars was presently heard, and a boat came out of the
gloom, rowed by two soldiers, with an officer in the stern. It came up
to the forward gangway, and the person in the stern climbed on board.
The boat did not wait for him, but pulled directly back to the island.

"I am glad to see you, Captain Westover," said Christy, as the officer
came into the pilot-house.

"And I am equally glad to see you, lieutenant," replied the captain.
"You seem to have been successful in your undertaking?"

"Successful so far, and I think the worst of it is over now."

As soon as Beeks heard the name of Captain Westover, he understood all
that had been dark before. Even the Chinese lingo must have been agreed
upon. The army and the navy officer had been very busy in talking over
something when they came in the boat from the Bellevite, and after they
landed on the island. What they had been talking about was plain enough
now.

Captain Westover had not much confidence in the expectations of the
young naval officer when he expressed a hope that he might capture the
Teaser; but he had promised to render all the assistance in his power.
He had agreed to be on the shore of the island if the Teaser presented
herself, and thus assure the lieutenant of his position on the bay. He
had done more than this, for he had brought out a couple of guns and a
section of artillerists to beat off the guard-boat if it interfered with
the operations of the navy.

Christy had taken a course from the entrance of the sound, half way
between the island and Town Point, west-southwest. He knew that the
distance was about four miles; but he could not know, except by
sounding, when he came to the island, and he had bargained with the army
officer to be on the lookout for him. Captain Westover had heard the
noise of the Teaser, and had hailed her, thus assuring the lieutenant
that his calculation had been correct, and that he was in the vicinity
of Fort Pickens.

"I had no idea that you would accomplish anything, lieutenant," said
Captain Westover.

"I found everything laid out just as I should have wished it to be,"
replied Christy. "We had plenty of information that the steamer would
run out the first favorable night; and nothing could have been more
favorable for blockade running than this fog and darkness."

"But nothing has been seen of this steamer from the fort."

"Where was she fitted out, Dave?" asked Christy, turning to the steward.

"Up by Emanuel Point, sir, about a mile above the town," replied Dave.

"Then she has not shown herself in the lower bay."

The conversation was interrupted by the roll of a drum on the shore.

"There you are, lieutenant," said the captain with a smile. "When you
are ready to go ahead, don't wait on my account, for I will go on board
of the ship."

"But what is the drum for?" asked the lieutenant, who was in the dark in
his turn.

"I am not much of a sailor, lieutenant, but I have sent a drummer to
follow the shore to the west end of the island, and you will know by the
racket he makes where the island is, and how far off it is," replied the
army officer.

"I am much obliged to you, Captain Westover; that will be a safe guide
for me," said Christy, as he rang to go ahead.

He gave out the course west by north, and he thought he should be able
to keep within hail of the island, though, as he could see nothing,
it would be difficult to tell when he reached the northwest corner of
it. If he continued on this course too long, he was likely to scrape
acquaintance with Fort McRae, for there would be nothing in the
soundings to indicate the approach to this dangerous neighbor.

Nothing more was heard of the guard-boat, though the section of
artillery continued to discharge shells into the fog for a short time.
On the other side of the bay Fort Barrancas kept up its fire at long
intervals, and Fort Pickens could not reply without the danger of
putting a shot into the Teaser after her recent reformation. The steamer
kept on her course at half speed; but in ten minutes the sound of the
drum fell astern of her, when the drummer could go no farther.

"Heave over the wheel, Beeks," said Christy.

Then he rang the bell to go ahead at full speed.




CHAPTER XXIII

ANOTHER NIGHT EXPEDITION


With the drum still beating on the shore, the Teaser rounded the
northwestern point of the island, when the wheel was heaved over.
Christy was entirely confident in regard to the navigation, for he had
steered the Bellevite through the same channel when on an excursion a
year before. But he had daylight and sunshine at that time instead of
fog and gloom as on the present occasion.

"Buoy on the starboard, sir!" reported the leadsman on that side.

"Buoy on the port hand!" cried the man on the other side, a minute
later.

"We are all right," added the lieutenant. "We are between the middle
ground and the island. The buoy on the port is the southwest point of
the island."

The Bellevite was not the only man-of-war that lay off Pensacola, for
the Brooklyn and other vessels were there to assist in the defence of
Fort Pickens, which the enemy were determined to capture if possible.
The government had done everything within its means to "hold the fort,"
though an army of about ten thousand men had been gathered in the
vicinity to reduce it. The dry-dock which had floated near Warrenton,
and which the Confederates intended to sink in the channel, had been
burned, and a force of Unionists, including the Zouaves, called "The Pet
Lambs," had been quartered on the island of Santa Rosa. It had looked
for several days as though the enemy were preparing for a movement in
retaliation for the destruction of the dry-dock, which was a bad
set-back for them.

The getting to sea of the Teaser had no connection with this movement,
it appeared afterwards, and if Lieutenant Passford's enterprise had been
carried out only an hour or two later, he would have found the situation
quite different. He had sent the most of Captain Folkner's force on
board ashore, and had it all his own way afterwards. He was sorry to
leave these men, and the rest of the ship's company of the Teaser, to
assist in fighting the battles of the Confederacy, and he was filled
with the hope that they might yet be captured.

As soon as the Teaser was well to the southward of the island, Christy
gave two short and a long blast on the steam whistle, which was the
signal he had agreed to make when he approached the Bellevite, though
Captain Breaker had laughed at him when he suggested that he might
return in the prize. The same signal was made in reply, and repeated
several times to aid him in finding the ship. The water was
comparatively smooth, and the prize came alongside the Bellevite,
where it was made fast.

The lieutenant's first duty was to report to the captain of the
Bellevite, and taking Dave with him, he hastened on board. He found
Captain Breaker on deck, for there was a feeling in the fleet and in the
fort that some important event was about to transpire in the vicinity.

"I am glad to see you, Mr. Passford," said he; and possibly it
occurred to him that he had sent the young man on a difficult mission,
practically within the enemy's lines. "You have brought the prize with
you, I see; and I was before informed of the fact that you had her by
the signal whistles."

"Yes, sir; the Teaser is alongside. She is not a vessel of the
Confederate Navy, but was fitted out on private account. She is a
privateer," replied Christy.

"So much the better that you have captured her," added the captain.
"Did you have a severe fight, Mr. Passford?"

"We had no fight at all, sir. I was instructed to avoid a fight if
possible, and I have done so. Not a blow has been struck or a shot
fired, sir."

"I will hear your report in detail later, Mr. Passford, when the prize
is in a better situation than now. Have you any prisoners?" asked
Captain Breaker.

"Only the captain and the engineers, sir. This man with me is Dave,
and he was a steward on board of the Teaser. He has given me valuable
information, and I have not regarded him as a prisoner," replied the
lieutenant.

"I understand," said the commander, with a smile, as he saw the yellow
hue of the steward's face. "We will not regard him as a prisoner. But
you may send the others on board."

Captain Folkner was in no better humor than before, and a berth in the
steerage was assigned to him. The other prisoners were sent on board,
and Captain Breaker had ordered Christy to anchor the prize near the
Bellevite.

"I don't feel as though I had quite finished my work," said Christy,
as he walked towards the gangway to obey the order.

"What more is there to do?" asked the commander.

"It would take me a little time to tell the story of my trip into the
bay, sir, and I think you would not understand what more is to be done
until you have heard it," replied Christy.

"Then I will hear you before you anchor the Teaser," said the captain,
leading the way to his cabin.

The lieutenant narrated the events of his trip across Santa Rosa Island.
Captain Breaker was not a little amused at his scheme to get rid of the
portion of the crew of the privateer before he captured her.

"I never suspected that you were the possessor of so much audacity,
Christy," said he, when the lieutenant had put him in possession of all
the facts.

"I did not know that I had more than my fair share, sir, and I don't
know what I have done that is at all audacious," replied Christy, very
meekly.

"It is a very dark and foggy night, but I don't believe that I have
another officer who would have cheek enough to pretend to be a pilot
in Pensacola Bay, and to be in possession of the guard-boat at the same
time."

"Captain Folkner put the idea into my head, and I think I should have
been an idiot not to make use of it, considering the nature of my
mission on board of the Teaser."

"It is a wonder that no one knew you were not Gilder."

"The men in the guard-boat did not expose me, and admitted by their
silence that I was the person I claimed to be," replied Christy, with
a twinkle of the eyes.

"Your scheme would have failed ninety-nine times out of a hundred."

"If it had failed, I had force enough to clean out the enemy on board,
so that I ran no risk; but I was ordered to avoid a fight, and I did
so," argued Christy.

"You were exceedingly fortunate; and the next time you try such a trick,
it may lead you into a rebel prison."

"It was not my fault that the ship's company of the Teaser were at issue
among themselves, and I should have been an imbecile to fail to profit
by it."

"I approve all you have done, Mr. Passford."

"Thank you, sir. Though I was of Captain Folkner's opinion that the
sound was the best way out of the bay in the first place, I abandoned
that view before I started on the expedition. I was sorry that I could
not indorse Captain Folkner's opinion, and that I was obliged to take
sides with his men," said Christy, chuckling.

"I understand your position perfectly. Now, what do you mean by
finishing your work, Mr. Passford?" asked Captain Breaker, curiously.
"We have the Teaser, and we ought to be satisfied with your brilliant
success."

"I am not quite satisfied, sir."

"You ought to be."

"We put twelve men ashore at Town Point rather than have a fight with
them; and I have the feeling that we have a mortgage on those men,
to say nothing of thirty more at Pensacola who were to join the Teaser.
I told them they could get on board of their steamer from the island.
I shall be sorry to disappoint them, for I suppose the whole forty or
more are counting on a handsome allowance of prize money to be made for
them by the Teaser. I should be sorry to disappoint them," continued
Christy, chuckling all the time.

"Precisely so! I suppose you would be greatly grieved to blast their
hopes, and you propose to take them on board of the steamer."

"That is the idea, sir. Taking a more patriotic view of the question,
it would be a great pity to allow forty good sailors to waste their
energies in the service of the Confederacy."

"Undoubtedly it would," said Captain Breaker, his brow knitting under
his earnest thought. "What do you propose to do? Explain your plan
fully, Mr. Passford."

"The principal of the malcontents on board of the Teaser was a man by
the name of Lonley," Christy explained. "We left them at the point where
the rest of the Teaser's crew were to join them. They are all anxious
to get to sea in the Teaser, and I have no doubt they will come down
to-night."

"I should think they would," the captain assented. "But they will expect
to find the steamer in the sound, and not outside of the island. If the
Teaser could get through the sound at all, she would not be where you
intend to put her."

"I told Lonley to get upon the island, and be on the lookout for the
Teaser; and as they have to come from Pensacola in a boat, it will be as
easy for them to go to the island as to land at the point. Very likely
they will get the Times to bring them off, or some other steamer,"
Christy argued.

"It is certainly very desirable to capture these men, for it will do so
much to weaken the enemy; but I am afraid you are a little too audacious
in some of your movements, Mr. Passford," replied Captain Breaker, with
a softening smile.

"I beg you will not consider that I am asking for the command of the
Teaser, Captain Breaker, if she is sent upon this duty," returned the
lieutenant, somewhat set back at the prudence of the commander.

"I think I had better send Mr. Blowitt in command of the Teaser, and you
shall go as his first officer," added the captain.

"I have no objection, even in my heart, to this arrangement," replied
Christy.

"But I shall have to send the prize to New York, and I will appoint you
prize-master," continued the captain, afraid that he was disappointing
the ambitious young officer. "You have done exceedingly well, Christy,
and I shall not fail to mention you favorably in my report; and you will
write out yours as soon as possible."

Christy would not allow himself to think that he was unappreciated
because an older officer was appointed to conduct the enterprise he
suggested. He was ready to do his whole duty either as principal or
subordinate. Mr. Blowitt was summoned from his stateroom, and forty
men, including all who had taken part in the capture of the prize,
were detailed to man the Teaser. The second lieutenant was one of the
jolliest men on board, but he weighed nearly two hundred pounds, and he
was not as active on this account in boat service as some others. He was
an excellent officer, and had been in command of a steamer, though he
had never before been in the navy.

At three o'clock in the morning the fasts of the Teaser were cast off,
and she backed away from the Bellevite. She was to proceed to a point
about six miles to the eastward, which was beyond the camp of the "Pet
Lambs." Here she was to look out for the Teaser's crew.

She had not made half this distance when all hands heard rapid and
continued firing on Santa Rosa Island.




CHAPTER XXIV

LIEUTENANT PASSFORD ON A MISSION


The officers on board of the Teaser could not explain the occasion of
the firing on the island, though it sounded as though an engagement of
some sort was in progress. It had been foggy during the preceding day,
and if any movement on the part of the enemy had been indicated it could
not have been seen on board of the ships off the entrance to the bay.

"I hope this business we are to do this morning will not take us long,"
said Mr. Blowitt. "We may be wanted on board, and I should not like to
be absent from the Bellevite if she is to take part in an engagement of
any kind."

"And I am sure I should not," added Christy. "I should not be surprised
if the enemy made an attempt to capture Pickens; but even if they storm
it in the darkness, I do not see that the ships can do anything until
they are able to see what they are to do."

"But this affair may keep us away from the ship for a day or two,"
suggested the second lieutenant.

"I don't think so, sir; I believe you will be on board again before
seven bells in the morning watch," replied Christy. "The ship's company
of the Teaser were to be somewhere on the shores of the sound where they
could be taken on board."

"But the men you landed at the point believed that the Teaser was to
get out through the sound," replied Mr. Blowitt. "They took you for the
pilot Gilder, and you did not tell them that you intended to run the
blockade."

"Of course I did not; if I had, they would have remained on board. But
the guard-boat attempted to stop us, and the artillery on the island
fired into it, though it is probable that they did not hit it in the
dense fog," Christy explained. "Our men may have learned from the
guard-boat that we took the steamer out through the main channel."

"If they did they probably learned that the Teaser went out with the
assistance of the garrison at the fort," suggested Mr. Blowitt.

"I am confident that the officer of the guard-boat would have no means
of knowing that fact," argued Christy. "Of course, he heard the firing
in the neighborhood of the fort, and he would naturally conclude that
they were firing upon the steamer to prevent her from running out."

"That may be; but, to tell you the truth, Mr. Passford, I am afraid we
shall not find these men," added the second lieutenant. "From the firing
we hear, I should judge that a movement of some kind is in progress, and
our men may be better informed than you expect."

"Of course, they may be; but I expect to find these men at some point
along the shore," replied Christy, who thought the second lieutenant was
just a little obstinate in not accepting his theory in full.

The steamer continued on her course to the eastward, and nothing more
passed between the two principal officers in regard to the crew from
Pensacola. But Flint was quite as confident as the third lieutenant that
the forty men, more or less, would be captured. The noise of the firing
could no longer be heard, and then Christy suggested that the whistle be
sounded as a signal to the men if they were in the vicinity.

The depth of water was three or four fathoms close up to this part
of the island. The soundings indicated that the steamer was as near
as it was prudent to go in the dense fog. Christy was sure that the
privateer's crew could not have gone any farther to the eastward by this
time, and the screw was stopped, while all hands made an anxious use of
their ears to detect any sounds that came from the shore. But nothing
could be heard at first, and Mr. Blowitt again intimated that they were
engaged in a "wild-goose chase." But he had hardly uttered this cooling
reflection before Beeks came aft to report that a number of pistol
shots, as he thought they were, had been heard in the distance.

"Nobody can tell what they mean," said the sceptical Mr. Blowitt. "They
may be a part of the affair we heard going on soon after we left the
ship."

"In what direction were the shots, Beeks?" asked Christy.

"They sounded as though they were about half a mile or less to the
westward of us," replied the quartermaster.

"Blow the whistle in short blasts, Beeks," added Mr. Blowitt, who seemed
to have gathered a little faith from the report of the quartermaster.

The order was obeyed, and Beeks again reported that pistol shots had
been heard from the westward. The third lieutenant was in a hurry to
have the business finished, for he felt confident that the Bellevite
would soon be engaged in an affair of more importance than picking up
a couple of score of prisoners. He ordered the steamer to come about,
and move to the westward; but after she had been under way about five
minutes, he rang to stop her, and then sounded the whistles again.
Several pistol shots responded to this signal. Again he started the
screw, and pointed the bow of the Teaser squarely to the north.

The steamer moved very slowly, and two men sounded all the time till
they reported "by the mark two," when there could not have been more
than three feet of water under the keel of the vessel. The screw was
stopped and backed so that she might not run upon any shoal place ahead
of her, and the officers waited with interest and anxiety for further
action on the part of the party on shore. By this time no one doubted
that there were men on this part of the island; but whether they were
the crew of the privateer or not was yet to be proved.

"Steamer, ahoy!" shouted some one on the shore.

"On the island!" replied Christy, as he was instructed to do by his
superior.

"What steamer is that?" demanded the speaker on the island.

Whoever he was, he could not help knowing that a steamer was there, for
the engineer had begun to blow off steam as soon as the screw stopped,
though neither party could see the other in the fog and darkness.

"The Teaser," replied Christy. "Who are you?"

"We are the ship's company of the Teaser, and we want to get on board,"
replied the speaker. "Is Captain Folkner on board?"

"He is on board--of the Bellevite," the third lieutenant would have
finished the sentence if he had told the whole truth, for he uttered
only the first part of the sentence.

"All right. The first and second lieutenants are with us. Is Gilder on
board?"

"He is; and he wants to get back to the other side of the inland,"
answered Christy, who considered it his duty to make his replies as
suitable to the occasion as possible. "Who is speaking?"

"Lieutenant Lonley," replied the man; and Christy knew him, though he
did not know his rank before. "He wants to see Gilder before he goes on
board. Tell him to come on shore in his canoe."

"What is that for?" demanded Christy, rather surprised at the unexpected
request.

"I want to see him on particular business; I have a message for him,
which I cannot deliver in presence of any other person," replied Lonley.

"All right; you shall see him soon," answered Christy.

"Get out the boats to take us on board," continued Lonley. "Send them
about a mile to the eastward, where we have left our bags."

"All right," repeated Christy.

But he said what he did not believe, for everything did not look right
to him. He could not understand why the bags of the men should be a mile
to the eastward. He could not imagine what business Lonley could have
with Gilder or his representative; and if he had any, why it should be
necessary to meet him on the island.

"Of course you don't expect me to carry on the programme that fellow has
marked out," said Mr. Blowitt. "I don't quite like the looks of the
things that we can't see, Mr. Passford."

"Neither do I, Mr. Blowitt," replied the third lieutenant frankly.

"I shall not send a boat from the steamer till I understand this matter
a great deal better than I do now, and especially I shall not send the
boats a mile to the eastward," added the second lieutenant.

"Of course it is possible that my plan has miscarried already," added
Christy.

"I shall do everything I can to carry out your plan, as I am instructed
to do by the captain; but I have the feeling, in spite of myself, that
we are crawling into a hornet's nest," added Mr. Blowitt, with some
anxiety in his tones. "You will call all hands quietly, and be ready to
repel boarders. It is well to be prepared for whatever may come. The
firing at the west end of the island indicated that something was going
on, and perhaps these men on the shore know about it."

Christy obeyed the order promptly, and the next minute, every seaman on
board was ready with his cutlass and revolver to meet an attack. But no
sound came from the shore just then, and the officers were in a state of
uncertainty in regard to the situation which allowed them to do nothing.
They waited for half an hour, when the leadsman reported that the water
was shoaling, which indicated that the Teaser was drifting towards the
island.

"On board the Teaser!" shouted Lonley, so distinctly that he could
hardly have been more than three hundred feet from the steamer.

"On shore," replied Christy, prompted by Mr. Blowitt.

"I am waiting for Gilder! Why don't he come on shore?" shouted Lonley,
his impatience apparent in his tones.

"Where are all the men?" demanded Christy, as requested by the second
lieutenant.

"They have gone a mile to the eastward where they left their bags."

"We will run down in the steamer for them," added Mr. Blowitt, talking
through Christy.

"Don't do that!" protested the speaker on shore. "There is a Yankee
steamer off in that direction. We heard her steam an hour ago."

"All right!" replied Christy.

"That settles the matter in my mind," said Mr. Blowitt. "They are trying
to play what they call a Yankee trick upon us. When we send our boats to
the eastward, we shall send them into a trap. If the boats are to bring
off forty men, they will expect them to go with only men enough to pull
the oars; and when they get possession of them, they expect to retake
the Teaser."

"I think you are right, Mr. Blowitt," replied Christy, who began to
believe that his scheme was rapidly approaching a failure, though he did
not give it up just yet.

"This Lonley is still on the shore near us," said Mr. Blowitt. "I should
very much like to know what has been going on to-night on the island,
and it may be that he knows all about it. As you are the representative
of Gilder, Mr. Passford, you may take the canoe that is astern, and have
a talk with Lonley at close quarters, if you don't object."

"I should have proposed it myself if I had not feared that the idea
would be charged to my audacity," replied Christy. "I will take only
Flint with me, as he was with me before."

The canoe was brought up to the gangway, and Flint took his place at the
oars. Mr. Blowitt charged the young officer in the most serious manner
not to run any risks, and the boat was shoved off. It required but a few
strokes of the oars to bring it into shoal water by the beach. Only a
single man could be seen on the shore, and this one must be Lonley.
There seemed to be no risk, and Christy landed.




CHAPTER XXV

CHRISTY BECOMES A VICTIM


Everything was perfectly still on the island, and only a single man
was in sight; but Christy put his hand upon his revolver as he went
on shore. Though he had never been a fighting young man, he had the
impression that he should not tamely submit to the assault of an enemy,
or run away from any single man that stood up in front of him. He had
always been prudent, even while he had been daring, and he hardly needed
the solemn admonition of the second lieutenant to be extremely cautious.

"Is that you, Captain Gilder?" asked the man on the shore, who stood a
little way from the waterside.

"Yes; and I take it for granted that you are Lonley," replied Christy,
advancing towards the other. "You have done all the talking this night,
and I ought to know you."

"All the talking except what you have done, and I ought to know you,"
replied Lonley. "I am Lieutenant Lonley, of the Teaser, and our men are
all ready to go on board."

"And Captain Folkner is all ready to have them go on board," returned
Christy, who had no doubt of the truth of what he said, though he
understood that he was telling a "story" all the same.

"I have no doubt he is. But I don't quite understand how you happen to
be on this side of the island, and so far to the westward at this time
in the morning. We expected to find the Teaser burrowing through the
sound, and we had about made up our minds to take possession of her and
run the blockade, as other Christians do. We did not believe she would
get through the sound in a week, if she ever did."

"I succeeded in persuading Captain Folkner that he had better come out
by the main channel; and that is the way we did come out, and that
explains how we happen to be here at this time in the morning," replied
Christy, very cheerfully.

"You must have very strong powers of persuasion, Captain Gilder," said
Lonley, laughing.

"I have in a case such as this was," added the lieutenant, with a
chuckle, as he thought of the particular kind of persuasion he had
used upon the captain of the privateer.

"I would give a good deal if I had just such powers, for they are
sometimes of very great service to an officer."

"You are quite right, Mr. Lonley. I suppose you are the first lieutenant
of the Teaser."

"No, I am not; kissing goes by favor, and the captain's brother is the
first; and he is no more fit for his position than the captain is for
his duty. I was in hope that the government would take possession of
the steamer, and send her to sea properly officered," added Lonley,
very good-naturedly.

"Good officers are quite necessary in the service," suggested Christy.
"I have no doubt you will fill the bill, and be all that could be
possibly desired."

"Thank you, Captain Gilder. Did you have any trouble in getting out of
the bay?"

"No, none at all. By the way, Mr. Lonley, we have been hearing firing at
the west end of the island to-night. Do you know what it means?"

"The first thing was to clean out that regiment of Zouaves; and I have
no doubt that has been done before now; and our boys may get a hack at
Pickens. A big force was landed in the fog, and the Yankees will not
stay on this island much longer," replied Lonley.

His information was entirely correct, though his prediction was not
equally reliable.

"I was sure there was fighting going on over there," added Christy.
"You seem to be all alone, Mr. Lonley. Where are all your men?"

"I told you before you came ashore that I had sent them all over to the
place where they had left their bags, about a mile to the eastward of
us. I suppose Captain Folkner has sent the boats over there for them
before this time?"

"He was inclined to run over in the steamer," added Christy.

"I hope he did not do that," said the privateersman, with a good deal
more energy than the other thought the occasion warranted. "I warned you
that there was a Yankee gunboat over that way."

"The Teaser has not gone over that way," replied Christy.

"If she has, she will be gobbled up by that gunboat, and all my men with
her."

"I persuaded Captain Folkner not to do it," added the Bellevite's
officer, very quietly.

"He ought to have done just what I asked him to do; and that was to send
his boats over to the place named for the men."

"And I persuaded him to do that also," continued Christy, as
unblushingly as though he had not been strictly in the habit of
telling the truth all his lifetime.

"Good for you, Captain Gilder!" exclaimed Lonley, grasping the hand of
his companion as though he had been his brother. "You beat all the men
I ever knew on power of persuasion; and when I get the command of the
Teaser, as I expect to have before this year ends, I shall want you to
serve as my first lieutenant."

"Thank you, Lieutenant Lonley; you are very kind; and if I ever go into
the privateering service, I shall certainly go in with you," replied
Christy.

"An officer with your power of persuasion will be invaluable to me,"
replied Lonley, still holding the hand of the other. "If I were gifted
in this respect as you are, Captain Gilder, do you know what I would
do?"

"I am sure I have not the least idea, unless it would be to persuade
Jeff Davis to send you a commission as a captain in the regular navy,"
said Christy, laughing at the idea.

"I am afraid I should have too little cheek to attempt to do that, for
the president is a rather obstinate man, and I fear he would not see the
point. Besides, I am a very modest man, though you may not have observed
this shining trait in my character. No; I am too diffident to ask for a
place I have not won by service."

"Then what would you do in the way of persuasion?" asked Christy, though
he wondered why he was prolonging the interview.

"I should use my powers of persuasion upon you, Captain Gilder, in the
first place."

"I don't think it would be of any use, for I am too well posted in that
way of doing it to be influenced," replied Christy, trying to withdraw
his hand from the grasp of the privateersman. "I must go on board of the
Teaser again when you have delivered your message to me, as that was
what you wished to see me for."

"I did say I had a message for you, didn't I? Well, upon my life, I have
quite forgot what it was, but it was from President Jefferson Davis,
and he was particular that I should deliver it to you to-night or this
morning. Isn't it very strange that I should forget a message of so much
importance that it could not be trusted to writing?"

"Passing strange, I should say," answered Christy, who began to
understand that he had fallen into a trap of some sort. "While you are
thinking of it, I will go on board, and persuade Captain Folkner not to
run the Teaser to the eastward if he should take it into his head to do
so. I had no idea there was a Yankee gunboat in that direction, and I
don't believe the captain had. Besides, he don't know where he is in
this fog, and he needs me."

As he spoke, Christy tried to withdraw his hand from the grasp of
Lonley, as he had not succeeded in doing before when he tried. But the
privateersman suddenly fell upon him, and both of them went down. A
tremendous struggle followed, but before it was decided, two men rushed
out of the gloom, and took part in the affair; and they soon settled the
matter in favor of the Confederacy, much to the chagrin of the second
lieutenant of the Bellevite.

  [Illustration: "A tremendous struggle followed."--Page 284.]

Flint had remained in the canoe, which had been partly drawn up on
the beach; but the moment he sprang out upon the sand to go to the
assistance of his officer, he was set upon by two men and secured. Both
of them were deprived of their weapons, and their hands tied behind
them. Beyond a doubt the lieutenant and the master's mate were prisoners
before they had any clear idea of the situation.

"Are you there, Mr. Folkner?" called Lonley, as soon as the prisoners
were secured, speaking now in an energetic tone, as he had not before.

"I am here," replied a man who seemed to be in a boat not far from the
spot. "You have kept me a long time waiting for you!"

"I wanted to give the Yankee boats time to get at least a mile from
the Teaser before anything was done. Shove off now, and make things as
lively as you can," said Lonley. "Go to your places in the boats,"
he continued to four men who had assisted in the capture of the two
officers.

By this time Christy had a chance to see that he was a victim of a trick
which was to eventuate in the recapture of the Teaser; and he was sorry
that he was not the only victim, as he looked at Flint. He realized too
that the scheme had been very well planned, though he was really happy
in the belief that it would be a failure in the end. Lonley seemed to
be the leading spirit in the affair, and managed the details. He had
intended that the boats should be sent from the Teaser to a point at
least a mile off.

He had taken it for granted that the steamer would come to pick them
up, or in other words, to capture the forty prisoners. If he was weak
in accepting as the truth Christy's statement that the boats had
been actually sent away, as desired, he could see no reason why the
Yankee officer should try to deceive him. It appeared now that the
privateersmen had two boats, which had been brought across the island
for the purpose. Lonley had naturally wished that only a few men should
be on board, and concluded that it would be an easy matter to capture
the steamer, and then to secure the men in the boats when they returned
from the eastward.

The four men on shore, who had been put in a place where they could
assist Lonley, hastened to the boats, and they shoved off, pulling as
silently as though the oars had been muffled, as probably they had been.
In a moment more they disappeared in the darkness and fog.

"I think I have improved a great deal in the art of persuasion,"
said Lonley, as the boats disappeared. "I suppose I persuaded you
as effectually as you did Captain Folkner."

"You have done very well, Mr. Lonley," replied Christy, in a patronizing
tone, for he was determined that his companion should derive no
satisfaction from seeing him cast down by his misfortune.

"You informed me a little while ago that Captain Folkner was on board
of the Teaser; and I wish to ask if you are uniformly in the habit of
speaking the truth?" continued Lonley.

"Well, that depends upon circumstances. If I have not done so, you
cannot expect me to contradict myself."

"You claimed that you were Captain Gilder."

"Hardly, my excellent friend: when Captain Folkner addressed me by that
name, I did not object to it."

"That was just as much a lie as though you had claimed it in so many
words," protested Lonley.

"I admit it; and I hardly expect a true patriot to tell the truth to
the enemy. If I remember rightly, you told me yourself that your men
had gone to the eastward where they had left their bags. I don't believe
that your conscience reproached you when they showed themselves in the
boats."

At this moment pistol shots were heard on the water.




CHAPTER XXVI

THE ACTION ON THE DECK OF THE TEASER


As the Teaser was but a short distance from the shore, Christy had no
doubt that the attempt to board her had been made by this time. Mr.
Blowitt had quite as many men on board of the steamer as could have been
contained in the two boats, and he was not much concerned about the
result of the attack, especially as he knew that the second lieutenant
was fully prepared and on the lookout for it. The only thing that
Christy regretted was that he was not on board of the Teaser to take
part in the affair of repelling boarders.

"There seems to be some music in the air," said Lonley, after he had
listened for a few moments to the sounds that came from the direction of
the steamer.

"To return to the subject of the morality of telling stories, your men
do not seem to be a mile to the eastward, where their bags were left,"
added Christy good-naturedly.

"You had a glance at them in the boats, though the darkness and fog were
rather too thick for you to count them," replied Lonley, chuckling over
the deception he had practised upon the lieutenant of the Bellevite.

"Yes, I saw them, and I concluded that they could not be where their
bags were."

"All is fair in war."

"That seems to be the generally received maxim, and he is the smartest
man who the most thoroughly deceives the enemy," added Christy, who
found himself tolerably well satisfied with the situation, though he was
a prisoner.

"That is so, and of course I can find no fault with you for deceiving
me," returned Lonley, chuckling as though he was even better satisfied
with the situation than his companion.

"Thank you, Mr. Lonley; you are magnanimous, and with equal sincerity
I can say that I have no fault to find with you," replied the Union
officer. "But I have my doubts whether, after this, either of us will be
likely to believe what the other says. But, for my part, I wish to say
that I don't believe in telling anything but necessary and patriotic
lies."

"That is my view of the matter exactly; and if there is any man that
despises a liar, I am that man," said Lonley warmly. "But it seems to
me they are making a good deal of a racket off there," he added, as the
noise of pistol shots and the clash of cutlasses came over the smooth
waters of the gulf.

"They seem to be at it quite earnestly," replied Christy.

"By the way, how many men did you leave on board of the Teaser?" asked
the privateersman, whose manner seemed to have suddenly become
considerably changed.

"How many men?" repeated the lieutenant of the Bellevite.

"That is the question I asked," replied the lieutenant of the Teaser.

"I suppose you would not believe me if I should tell you," answered
Christy.

"I judge that you can speak the truth if you try," added Lonley, with
more asperity than the occasion seemed to require.

"I know that I could," said Christy, very decidedly; "and I may add that
I was in the habit of doing so on all occasions before this cruel war
began."

"Then suppose you try to do so just now, and tell me how many men your
people had on board of the Teaser."

"You must excuse me for the present, for I do not like to make
statements to one who will not believe what I say," answered Christy,
rather facetiously.

"You are a prisoner now."

"I am painfully aware of the fact, but I doubt if the government service
will suffer very much in my absence from duty."

"You are too modest by half, Mr.--but I have not even the pleasure of
knowing your name, and conversation is annoying under such
circumstances."

"I am simply Midshipman Passford, at your service."

"Only a midshipman!" exclaimed Lonley. "Upon my word, you ought to be a
commodore. Passford? Possibly you are a cousin of Colonel Passford of
Glenfield."

"Colonel Passford is my uncle. Do you know him?" asked Christy.

"I do know him; and there is not a finer man or a truer patriot in the
South than Colonel Passford. He is loading a schooner with cotton, and
he offered me the command of it. Then you are his nephew, I have heard
of you."

"I hope my uncle is quite well, for I have not heard from him for
several weeks, or since I left New York."

"I saw him ten days ago, and he was very well then. I am very happy
to have made a prisoner of his enterprising nephew, who appears to be
capable of doing our cause a great deal of mischief," replied Lonley,
looking earnestly in the direction of the Teaser.

"Thank you, Mr. Lonley; I certainly intend to do it all the mischief I
can in a legitimate way. I am speaking the truth now," said Christy.

"But you have not answered my question in regard to the number of men on
board of the Teaser when you left her."

"And you will excuse me for the present if I do not answer it," added
the Union lieutenant.

"Very well, Mr. Passford; I cannot compel you to answer it, though doing
so would do no harm to your cause, for I should judge that the question
of the hour is settled."

"What is the question of the hour, Mr. Lonley?"

"The question is which side is in possession of the Teaser, yours or
mine," replied the privateersman, still gazing out into the gloom.

"Is that question settled?" asked Christy, with interest.

"Of course I don't know, but I should think that it was. We hear no
more pistol shots and no more clashing of cutlasses," replied Lonley,
uneasily. "But I expected to hear the triumphal shout of our men when
they had carried the deck of the Teaser."

"I have not heard anything like a triumphal shout," added Christy, very
quietly. "It is barely possible that your men have not carried the deck
of the Teaser."

"Of course, it is possible they have not; but I don't believe they have
failed," replied Lonley.

The privateersman listened for a few minutes in silence. He appeared
to be entirely confident that the victory must be with his men. He
evidently believed that the captors of the Teaser had sent her two boats
off to a distance of a mile, and thus weakened whatever force she had on
board of her. He did not seem to have any idea that the party he had
met in Pensacola Bay had been increased in numbers, or that the officer
in command had reported to the ship to which they belonged. Christy
realized what Lonley was thinking about, and he clearly believed that
the Teaser had been left in charge of not more than a dozen or fifteen
men, reduced by at least six then on boat duty.

"Help! help!" shouted a man in the water at no great distance from the
shore.

"What does that mean?" said Lonley, springing to his feet.

"It is a call for help, and, as my hands are tied behind me, I cannot
respond to it, as I would gladly do, be the man who needs it friend or
enemy," replied Christy. "There is the canoe in which we came ashore,
Lieutenant Lonley, and you can use that."

The privateersman sprang into the boat, shoved it off, and pulled in
the direction from which the appeal came. He disappeared in the fog in a
moment; but a little later was seen again approaching the shore. He had
not taken the sufferer into the boat, but he had clung to it. As he got
upon his feet, Christy saw that there were two of them, for one helped
the other up the beach.

"What does this mean?" demanded Lonley, very much excited. "Have you run
away from the others?"

"No, sir; but we were beaten in the fight, our boats captured, and all
hands taken prisoners except us two," replied the uninjured of the two
men.

Lieutenant Lonley, whatever his views of the morality of lying to the
enemy, uttered an exclamation which grated very harshly on the ears of
Lieutenant Passford. The result, as stated by the man who had swum to
the shore, was as unwelcome as it was unexpected. He had not deemed a
defeat even possible. He learned from the guard-boat that the steamer
had been captured. He had spent the time after he was landed with his
companions at Town Point, and organized his force for the recapture of
the Teaser. The failure of the final attack was as severe upon him as
the loss of his vessel had been upon Captain Folkner.

"Who are you?" demanded Lonley, when he had in some measure recovered
from the shock which the failure gave him.

"I am Levick, the boatswain; and this is Lieutenant Folkner, who was
wounded in the shoulder in the first of it," replied the man. "He was
knocked from the rail into the water when we boarded, and he held on to
an oar. When the fight was over, and we had lost it, I slipped into the
water, and helped the lieutenant along on his oar, till I was about used
up, and then I called for help."

"Are you much hurt, Mr. Folkner?" asked Lonley of the injured officer.

"I don't know; my shoulder feels numb, and I can't use my arm," replied
Folkner. "But I can use my legs, and I think that is what we had better
be doing."

"I don't understand it," protested Lonley, very much dissatisfied with
the result of the action, as may well be supposed. "I was sure you would
carry her deck at once."

"I was as sure as you were, Lonley; but I believe they had fifty men
all ready for us. They let us leap on deck without much opposition, and
then they surrounded us, and took us by surprise, for I did not suppose,
after what you said, that they had a dozen men," replied the wounded
lieutenant.

"I did not suppose they had even a dozen men left on board," Lonley
explained, with humiliation in his tones.

"I staid in the boat till I had seen all my men on deck," continued Mr.
Folkner. "They surrounded our force, and tumbled them into the hold as
though they had been pigs, slashing them with their cutlasses if they
tried to get out. I saw the fat officer in command of the enemy; he was
very active, and I leaped on deck, determined to cross weapons with him.
But he hit me in the shoulder with his cutlass, and I lost my hold on
the rail."

"You ought to have led your men, not followed them," said Lonley
bitterly.

"That is easy enough for you to say; but I wanted to be where I could
see my men," retorted the first lieutenant, of whom the second had a
very mean opinion, perhaps because he got his position on account of
being the captain's brother.

"Whether I did right or not, I can tell you all one thing; and that is,
that we shall be prisoners if we stay here any longer. They have got our
men under the hatches, and they have ordered out a boat to look for an
officer they sent ashore."

"We can do nothing here, and we may as well put ourselves in safer
quarters, for we have two prisoners to lose," said Lonley. "Mr.
Passford, I shall have to trouble you to march to the other side of
the island."

"I am your prisoner, Mr. Lonley, and I must obey your orders, though
I am sorry to be away from my ship in the hour of victory," replied
Christy submissively.

But he felt that his plan had been fully carried out.




CHAPTER XXVII

A VISIT FROM COLONEL HOMER PASSFORD


With his arms securely tied behind him, Christy realized that he could
make no resistance to his captors. Flint was in the same unfortunate
situation, and both of them had been deprived of their revolvers. But
in spite of his unpleasant surroundings, the young lieutenant felt that
the balance of advantage was on the side of the Union. If the government
was deprived of the services of a midshipman and a master's mate, a
dangerous privateer had been captured, and about forty prisoners had
been taken from the employ of the Confederacy. In the face of this
decided gain, Christy felt that he had no right to complain.

By this time the light of day had begun to have some effect on the
darkness and fog, though the gloom seemed to be hardly less. Lonley
directed his two prisoners to walk side by side behind the wounded
lieutenant, while he and Levick took their places in the rear. The
second lieutenant of the Teaser was duly impressed by what the first
had said about a probable visit to the island in search of the missing
midshipman, and he directed Folkner to march as rapidly as he could. He
took the control of the party out of the hands of his superior, and very
likely he wished he had done so sooner.

Folkner, as he had before suggested, still had the use of his legs, and
he certainly used them well, for he travelled like a man who was in a
hurry; but both Christy and Flint were in excellent condition, though
they had been on active duty all night, and they had no difficulty in
keeping up with their leader.

Lonley and Levick were both armed, and they kept their weapons in
readiness for immediate use, for the former recognized the enterprising
character of the young officer in front of him, and knew that he would
escape if he could. But Christy did not feel called to take any
desperate chances in order to restore himself at once to the service of
his country, and he and his companion in captivity marched along very
quietly. The two armed men soon dropped several paces to the rear, so
that the lieutenant could listen to the details of the action on the
deck of the Teaser. The prisoners could not hear what was said, and they
started a conversation on their own account.

"We are in a bad box," said Flint. "I did not expect to come out of the
little end of the horn in this way."

"You must take a broader view of the situation than that," replied
Christy. "The Teaser is certainly a prize of the Bellevite, with as many
as forty prisoners. That is the result of our night's work, though we
are counted out just now in the business of crowing over the success of
our side. That is the way to look at it; and this view makes me quite
satisfied with the night's work."

"I did not see it in that light, and I suppose you are right, Mr.
Passford," replied Flint.

"And you will not lose your share of the prize-money for the Yazoo or
the Teaser," added Christy, though, as the son of a millionnaire, he
felt no interest at all in the spoils of war.

"What do you suppose will be done with us, sir?" asked the master's
mate.

"I have not the least idea, any more than you have; but I have no doubt
we shall be kept in close confinement, and I don't believe we shall live
as well in our prison, wherever it may be, as we do on board of the
Bellevite. But I am rather fond of johnny-cake, and I don't expect to
starve on bacon."

"Don't you think it was a mistake to send us ashore in the canoe on the
part of Mr. Blowitt?" asked Flint, rather timidly.

"If it was, it was as much my mistake as it was his. But I don't think
it was a mistake. I cannot say that we did not succeed in the action on
the deck of the steamer because we were sent ashore," replied Christy.

"I don't see how that can be," replied Flint.

"In the first place, Lonley wanted me to come on shore, and asked that
I should do so. On the strength of what I said to him, he believed that
our boats had been sent to the eastward, and that induced him to make
the advance he did. After he had told us where to find the men, he had
good reason to believe that the boats would be sent for them. We did not
fall into the trap he set for us. I think it is all right as it is; but
whether it is or not, it's no use to grumble about it."

"I did not mean to grumble; and I am willing to believe that everything
has been for the best," replied Flint, apparently resolved to be
satisfied, as his superior officer was, whether he felt so or not.

Folkner led the way in a northwesterly direction, and evidently knew
where he was going. When they had been marching about half an hour,
the party heard the report of fire-arms in the rear of them; but the
discharges were at regular intervals, and did not sound as though they
came from a battle. A little later, they heard loud shouts.

"That is the party who are out in search of us," said Christy.

"That is so, Mr. Passford; the sounds are only signals, and they are
intended to notify you that your friends are in search of you," added
Lonley, hastening up to the advance of the party. "I should be very
sorry to do such a thing, but if you shout, or do anything to inform
that party where you are, it will be my duty to shoot you."

"I am not disposed to be rash, Mr. Lonley. If our friends overtake your
party, it will not be my fault," replied Christy.

"You do not expect me to shoot you in that case, I hope?" added the
privateersman.

"I did not know but that your revolver might go off by accident."

"You may be assured that it will not; I claim to be a gentleman and a
Christian, and I intend to be fair even to my enemies."

"I beg your pardon for my thoughtless remark. I have no occasion to
complain of you. I shall endeavor to be a gentleman and a Christian
also, though I intend to do my best in fighting my country's battles;
and I am not disposed to talk politics with you under present
circumstances."

The march was continued for some time longer, and the signals in
the rear were repeated till increasing light enabled the prisoners to
see that they were approaching Pensacola Bay. Not a little to their
astonishment, the shore seemed to be alive with soldiers, and they
learned that a battle, or something like one, had been fought on the
island. The Confederate forces had been sent to attack Wilson's Zouaves,
in camp to the eastward of the fort. Some very severe fighting had been
done in the darkness and fog, with heavy losses on both sides.

The Zouaves had been re-enforced from the fort, and with marines from
the ships. Though the Confederates claimed the victory, it was clear
enough to the two prisoners from the south side of the island that the
Southern troops were retreating from the field. A soldier who fought
with them wrote to a paper in Georgia: "I scarcely know whether we
achieved a victory, or suffered a defeat." He also said that in the
fog and darkness: "We shot down our friends in numbers."

A few prisoners had been captured by the enemy, including two officers.
But Folkner led the way to a point on the bay not very near the steamers
which had brought over the expedition from the mainland. The Confederate
troops embarked in the steamers and launches by which they had come; but
the Union troops followed them to the end. Their steamers were aground,
and a merciless fire was poured into them by the pursuing companies.

"They are having hot work of it over there," said Lonley, as they came
to a boat on the shore. "But that is not our affair, and it is quite
proper for us to keep out of the way of the flying bullets."

Christy and Flint were directed to take seats in the boat, and the
lieutenant and boatswain manned the oars. They were not out of the
reach of the bullets of the Federal troops, and the oarsmen pulled with
all their might for a time. It was five miles to Pensacola, but the
privateersmen landed their prisoners there. They were committed to a
sort of guard-house; but in the afternoon they were sent to Mobile with
about twenty others, who had been captured in the battle of the night
before.

There was not a great number of prisoners in the city, and it was
intended to remove them to other quarters arranged for their
accommodation.

Christy and Flint were confined in an unoccupied warehouse, and were fed
tolerably well, and they were supplied with some kind of dried grass for
beds. It was not at all like the luxurious stateroom of the lieutenant
on board of the Bellevite, or even the quarters of Flint; but they were
determined to make the best of it. Flint had become reconciled to his
situation, and Christy was even cheerful.

After he had been in the warehouse a few days, Christy was not a little
surprised to receive a visit from his uncle, Colonel Passford. He was
not surprised at the kindness of the planter in making the visit, but
that he should know so soon that he was a prisoner of war, for he had
fully decided not to make any appeal to his uncle; and he could not
imagine how he had discovered his situation.

"I am glad to see you, Christy," said Colonel Passford, extending his
hand, which Christy took without any hesitation.

"And I suppose you are glad to see me here," added the nephew, with a
smile.

"While I am glad to see you deprived of the power to injure the cause I
love, and to which I have pledged all that I have and all that I am, I
am sorry that you should be in trouble, Christy. I hope I have Christian
feeling enough to keep me from rejoicing at the misfortunes of any
person, and especially of my brother's son. I can say sincerely that
I am sorry you are in trouble," said the colonel solemnly.

"Oh, I am not in trouble, Uncle Homer!" exclaimed Christy, laughing.
"I have done my duty to my country, my conscience is clean, and I am
not to be upset by an accident like this. I am really happy in the
consciousness that I have been faithful to the cause of my country."

  [Illustration: "I am glad to see you, Christy."--Page 308.]

"I wish you had been; but we will not talk about that, for I suppose you
and your father have the same views," replied the planter, looking very
sad.

"I don't believe we should agree if we talked about it for a year, and
we had better give the subject the go-by. But how are Aunt Lydia and
Gerty?"

"Both are very well. I hope your father is in good health, as well as
your mother and sister."

"All very well."

"I have not heard a word from any of you for about five months,"
continued Colonel Passford. "In fact, not since you were here in May."

"We got home all right, and the Bellevite is a man-of-war now. She
captured one valuable prize off the coast of Carolina, and another at
Pensacola," replied Christy cheerfully.

"She ought never to have been allowed to leave Mobile Bay," added the
colonel.

"Your people certainly did everything they could to prevent her from
leaving, and I hope you don't blame yourselves for letting her go. What
about Corny, sir?" asked Christy.

"Major Pierson was very much to blame for permitting the Bellevite to
pass the forts when she came in, and he lost his command. But he has
devoted all his life to redeem his fault by her recapture. He took Corny
with him, and a naval officer; I only know that the attempt to recapture
her failed from the fact that the Bellevite is now on the blockade."

Finding that his uncle knew nothing of the events which had transpired
at Bonnydale, Christy told him all about them, informing him at the end
that Corny was a prisoner of war on parole at his father's house,
recovering from his wound.




CHAPTER XXVIII

AN ENTERPRISE FOR A DARK NIGHT


"Corny wounded!" exclaimed Colonel Passford, rising with no little
emotion from the box on which he had seated himself.

"Not seriously, Uncle Homer," added Christy.

"But how was he wounded? I have heard of no battle in the vicinity of
New York till now, though our papers contain some news from outside,"
continued the planter.

"It was hardly a battle," replied Christy. "Captain Carboneer had
brought a crew for a steamer through Canada, I believe, for the purpose
of capturing the Bellevite as she lay at Bonnydale. Major Pierson and
Corny were to assist him; and the major wished Captain Carboneer to take
Florry on board of her, and convey her to the South, when he had taken
possession of the steamer; but the naval officer was too high-toned to
do anything of the kind."

"I did not suppose Major Pierson could do such a thing," added the
planter, biting his lips.

"But the major insisted that he did not mean to take her against her
own will. Captain Carboneer bought an old steamer, put his men on board
of her, and started up the river to make the capture. I knew they were
coming, and was ready for them. We fired only one shot at the old
steamer, which smashed her walking-beam, and disabled her. A piece of
the machinery struck Corny, and injured him in the shoulder. The doctor
says he is not permanently injured, though it will be months before he
is able to use his arm. He was paroled, and mother is taking as good
care of him as though I had been wounded."

"I am thankful it is not worse," added the colonel, with a sigh of
relief. "What became of Major Pierson?"

"I don't know, but I suppose he is a prisoner in Fort Lafayette. He
refused to give his parole when he found he could not be a guest at
Bonnydale. Captain Carboneer obtained the command of a steamer, but it
was captured by the Bellevite, and probably he is with the major in the
fort."

The planter asked a great many questions in regard to the affair on the
Hudson, and Christy answered them. He gave some of the particulars of
the capture of the Teaser, and mentioned the name of Lonley, who had
told him that Colonel Passford had offered him the command of a schooner
he had loaded with cotton to run the blockade; but the planter said
nothing to indicate that he had ever heard of the privateersman.

"The Bellevite has been very fortunate so far, and she seems to have a
charmed existence," added the colonel.

"That is only because she is well handled," replied Christy, laughing.

"And you seem to be equally fortunate, Christy, for you have twice been
the means of saving your father's steamer. Corny has done nothing, is
wounded, and practically a prisoner. But, Christy, the tide will turn,
for Heaven is always on the side of a just cause," added the planter
solemnly.

"I believe it, uncle; and that will be the reason why the Union will
prevail in the end. Besides, Napoleon believed that Heaven was always
on the side of the stronger battalions."

"That was an impious remark; and Heaven, by its own mysterious ways,
will conduct the just cause of the South to a successful ending, and the
Confederate States of America will be an honored member of the family of
nations."

"I think we had better not talk politics, even though we mix in a little
religion," suggested Christy.

"As your father has been kind to my boy, wounded and a prisoner in the
midst of enemies, I ought to do something for you, Christy," continued
Colonel Passford, looking on the floor.

"Not at all, Uncle Homer; I am not wounded as Corny is, and there is
no need of doing anything for me," interposed Christy, laughing in the
serious face of the planter.

"I can get you paroled, and then I shall be glad to have you remain at
Glenfield until you are exchanged," said the planter.

"I shall not accept a parole, Uncle Homer," replied Christy promptly.

"Not accept a parole!" exclaimed the colonel. "Corny did so."

"If I were wounded, as Corny is, I would accept it."

"I hope you don't mean to try to escape, Christy," added his uncle, with
a look of deep concern on his dignified face, as he looked about the
apartment in which his nephew was confined.

"I don't say that I shall; if I did say so, you would have our guard
doubled, and ready to shoot me if they saw my head at a window,"
answered Christy with earnestness.

"You seem to think I am a heathen; but you forget that you are an active
enemy of my country," added the planter, with a pained expression.

"I don't forget it, uncle; but I am not half as active as I hope to be
before this thing ends. I believe you would see me shot or hung by the
neck till I was dead if it were for the benefit of what you call your
country."

"I hope and pray that I may never be placed in a situation to see
anything of that kind."

"I know you are earnest, honest, and sincere, Uncle Homer, and no
partiality to your own kindred would permit you to shirk what you
consider to be your duty. I find no fault with you; and I believe my
father would be equally firm," said Christy warmly.

"I think you understand me, my boy; but do not attempt any rash project.
I cannot prevent the guard from shooting you if you attempt to escape."

"I prefer to keep my own counsels in a matter of this kind, Uncle Homer.
Give my love to Aunt Lydia and Gerty, for I suppose I am not likely to
see them, as I am liable to be sent away any day."

"Oh, yes, you will see them, for they shall call upon you here as soon
as they return from Montgomery, where they have gone for a few days."

"It will be very kind of them to do so," added Christy, though he did
not believe he should be "at home" when they came.

"I do not wish you were wounded, my dear boy, but if you were, we would
do all that your father and mother are doing for poor Corny," replied
Colonel Passford fervently, "Now, promise me, Christy, that you will not
attempt to escape."

"I can't make any promises, uncle."

"I will do the best I can to have your condition improved, and see that
you have a better diet, if I send your food from a hotel."

"You are very kind, uncle, and I know that you will do all that your
duty will permit you to do for me."

"But I shall live in fear and trembling if I leave you without your
promise to refrain from daring exploits. Just consider, my dear boy; you
are in the fourth story of this warehouse, and the guard-room is below
you. You have really no chance at all of success, and a fall or a shot
may kill or disable you for life."

"I do not say that I shall try to escape, uncle."

"And you do not say that you will not try to escape."

For half an hour longer Colonel Passford endeavored to induce his nephew
to give the desired promise; but he remained obstinate to the end;
and his uncle was compelled to leave him, to enter upon the fear and
trembling in which he was to live while his enterprising nephew remained
a prisoner. But he promised to call upon him every day, and to write to
his wife and daughter to return at once.

"I think I shall not wait for him to call," said Christy to Flint,
as soon as he had gone.

"Do you expect to get out of this place, Mr. Passford?" asked the
master's mate, with lively interest.

"This very night!" replied Christy, in an energetic whisper, as he put
his finger on his lips to indicate that nothing more was to be said on
the subject.

The second lieutenant of the Bellevite had not been confined in the
warehouse three days without considering his chances of escape, and
the means of accomplishing such a purpose. He had looked the building
over with the greatest care. The room the prisoners occupied was next
to the roof. The rear windows opened upon a narrow alley, and he had
ascertained by looking out at them that the warehouse was one of a long
block. He had been in Mobile a great deal while the family were visiting
at Glenfield, and he had been careful to notice the location when he was
conducted to it with the others.

At the end of the loft next to the main street were thirty or forty
other prisoners, with whom Christy and Flint had been on good terms,
though they belonged to the army, and seemed to be inclined to keep
by themselves. They had been exhausted by hard service, and they had
nothing to do but eat and sleep, though the former occupation did not
occupy any great amount of their spare time. But as soon as it was
fairly dark, they stretched themselves on their beds of vines and weeds,
and most of them were soon asleep.

The evening that followed the day on which Colonel Passford visited his
nephew was dark, foggy, rainy, and as gloomy as even a blockade runner
might ask. Christy seated himself under one of the rear windows of the
loft, which appeared to have been intended only for storage, and was
only from seven to eight feet between studs. Flint placed himself at the
side of his companion, as he was requested to do.

"This is just the kind of a night we want," said Christy, in a whisper,
for he could hear the tramp of a sentinel outside the door of the loft.

"I should as soon think of getting out if we were buried a hundred feet
under ground as to think of getting out of this place," replied Flint,
who was hardly as enterprising as his officer, though he was always
ready to follow when he was well led. "There is a guard at the door,
Mr. Passford."

"He may stay there; we don't want anything of him," replied Christy.

"I see no other way out of this den, unless we jump down into the
street; but I will follow you, sir, if I fall a hundred feet in doing
it," protested the master's mate.

"You shall not fall six inches, and you will have no opportunity to do
so. But if you are all ready to follow my lead, we may as well begin at
once," added Christy, who had expected that it would require some
persuasion to induce his companion to join him.

The first thing the midshipman did was to take off his shoes, and to
require Flint to do the same. With these in their hands, Christy paced
off twenty steps, which brought him, according to a calculation he
had made in the daylight, under a scuttle that led to the roof of the
warehouse. Stationing the master's mate as a mark, he laid off five
paces at right angles with the first line from the party-wall. It was as
dark as Egypt, and the scuttle could not be seen; but the operator had
located it mathematically, and was confident as to its position. Flint
was planted under the opening, with the shoes of both at his side.

The master's mate was nearly six feet in his stocking feet as he stood,
and Christy whispered to him the next thing in his scheme. With the aid
of his willing assistant, the midshipman was mounted on the shoulders of
the former, where he stood up like an athlete in the gloom, though he
almost instantly obtained a hold above with his hands. He unfastened the
scuttle, and slid it off the aperture with the greatest care. Then he
drew himself up with his strong hands, and was on the roof. Then Flint
passed up the shoes, as he reached down for them. Seating himself on one
side of the frame, he braced his feet against the other side, and
grasped the hands of the mate. It did not work.




CHAPTER XXIX

THE NEW MATE OF THE COTTON SCHOONER


Christy had given himself credit for more physical strength, or Flint
for less weight, than the circumstances warranted, and found that he
could not draw up his companion as he intended. He made several efforts
to accomplish his purpose, but he failed every time. The fear of making
a noise cramped his efforts to some extent.

"Let go, Mr. Passford," whispered Flint, when he realized that his
avoirdupois was too much for the young officer. "I will get that box,
and then I can manage it myself."

"All right; but don't make a particle of noise," added Christy.

It required some time for the mate to find the box in the darkness, but
he had it in position at last, standing upon one end. Mounting it, he
found that his head was on a level with the roof, and he could easily
draw himself up; but he did not do so at once.

"What are you waiting for, Flint?" asked Christy, rather impatiently.

"If I leave the box where it is, the guard will see where we have gone
when they inspect the prison at ten o'clock," replied Flint.

"That's so; I did not have the box in my plan, and that would tell the
guard where to look for us," replied Christy. "We must make a line, and
haul it up after you."

"Here are two big handkerchiefs," added Flint, as he removed his
neck-cloth, and passed up his pocket handkerchief with it.

Christy tied the handkerchiefs together with great care, adding two more
of his own to the length, which he thought would reach the box, Flint
made it fast to the broken end of a board on the side, and then, without
the least difficulty or noise, sprang lightly to the roof of the
warehouse. With the aid of his companion, Christy drew up the box,
careful that it should not strike against the frame of the scuttle. The
door was closed, though of course they were unable to hook it on the
inside, as they had found it; but the guard were not likely to notice
that it was not fastened before morning.

"What next, Mr. Passford?" asked the master's mate, after they had
rested for a few minutes from their labors, though they had not been
very arduous.

"The next thing is to get down into the street, where we shall be as
safe as though we were as patriotic, over the left, as my Uncle Homer.
The burden of the work is done, but I hope we shall be able to kill two
birds with one stone," replied Christy, though his meaning was
mysterious to his companion.

"It don't seem to me that we are much better off than we were in the
loft," suggested the mate.

"I believe we are, though I don't think we had better indulge in any
long speeches just now. We have a favorable night, and we must make the
best of it. I don't intend to be seen in this town in the morning, but
we have the whole night before us."

"There will be a lively time looking for us to-morrow, for I don't think
they will be willing that you should get off, though it won't make much
difference to them about me."

"They would not be willing to part with you, my friend."

"But you made yourself rather noted in helping the Bellevite out last
May, and they will have a history of the loss of the Teaser in the
newspapers in due time, if they have not had it already; and they will
not like it a bit when they find that you have stepped out."

"They are welcome to their own reflections," replied the lieutenant.

"And they will send a searching party out to your uncle's estate at
Glenfield; but of course we shall not go near there," said Flint.

"That is just where I am going," replied Christy, decidedly, "for that
is where I expect to kill one of the birds with the stone I fire. But we
had better be moving, for we have a long tramp before us."

The midshipman led the way, and though the roof, which was nearly flat,
was wet with the falling rain, they walked, still in their stockinged
feet, to the farther end of the block. Neither of them wore his uniform,
as they remained as they had dressed for the duty they were to do on
board of the Teaser. This was a point in their favor in the course they
were to pursue, for their uniform would have betrayed them as soon as
they were seen.

Before they reached the end of the block of warehouses, they had found
and tried all the scuttles on the roof, but they had not discovered one
which had been left unfastened. At the last one this became a serious
question. The scuttle at the end warehouse was securely hooked on the
inside; but neither of the pair felt discouraged at this circumstance.
Looking about them they found a piece of joist about ten feet long,
which might have been left there when the building was finished. Christy
examined the scuttle with the greatest care, to determine on which side
the hooks were placed.

While he was doing this, Flint detached a couple of bricks from the
party-wall, which were used as a fulcrum for the lever, made of the
joist. The building was not inhabited, and there was little to be feared
at that height above the street from any noise they might make. Flint
sat down on the end of the lever, and the scuttle flew up at once, the
staple drawn out of the wood.

The master's mate was the first to enter; and he "hung off" to the floor
below. Then he assisted Christy to descend, and to close the scuttle
after him. Acting upon their belief that all the warehouses were
constructed on the same plan, they easily found the door by which they
reached the staircase. On the lower floor, they opened a window and
passed out into the alley in the rear of the building. They were on the
ground, and Christy soon ascertained where he was. He made his way to a
wharf where he was fortunate enough to find a boat.

This locality seemed to be entirely deserted, and there was no one to
challenge them, and no one appeared to take any notice of them on the
way. It was not yet nine o'clock, and many stores were open, one of
which they entered and bought a cooked ham and a large supply of bread.
The woman in charge asked no questions, though Christy talked about a
fishing trip to blind her. The boat they found was a very good one, and
as it was the property of the enemy, Christy had no scruples in regard
to confiscating it. He had money enough in his pocket to pay for it, but
as the owner did not appear to dispute his taking possession of it, he
dispensed with this ceremony.

Taking the oars which they found in the boat, they pulled away from the
wharf without interruption from any source. Christy took his bearings
as well as he could, and they passed out into the fog and darkness,
to which experience within a few days had accustomed them both. They
crossed the Alabama River, and then followed the land to the southward.
Striking across an inlet they reached the land again, and by midnight
they reached a point of land where Christy felt entirely at home. He
recognized it by the dilapidated wharf, from which he had embarked in
the Leopard.

It was still a long pull to Glenfield, and they went ashore to partake
of a little refreshment. Flint was a smoker, and he had some dry matches
which enabled them to make a fire, more for its light than its heat. The
ham was good and so was the bread to hungry men like the fugitives. At
the end of an hour by the midshipman's watch, they felt like new men,
and they resumed their places in the boat, and pulled two hours longer,
which brought them to the inlet at Glenfield. At the rude pier where the
Bellevite had been moored lay a topsail schooner.

"I don't find any fault, Mr. Passford, but it seems to me that it is
rather dangerous for you to come here," said Flint, in a low tone, as
soon as they had made out the schooner at the wharf. "I can't see what
you are to make by it; and your uncle would hand you over to the rebel
officers as readily as he would eat his breakfast."

"I have no doubt he would do so; but I don't intend to give him the
chance to do so," replied Christy, resting on his oar. "You see this
schooner. She is loaded with cotton, and she is going to run the
blockade about this time. I intend to take passage in her."

"Then you knew about this vessel?" asked Flint curiously.

"I did; and that is the particular reason why I came here. Lonley told
me that my uncle had offered him the command of the schooner; and now
that he has lost his position on board of the Teaser, I have no doubt
he has already applied for the berth that was offered to him. I am
confident that he has seen my uncle, and it must have been he who told
him that I was a prisoner."

"I begin to understand you now, Mr. Passford," added Flint.

"If you do, we will say no more about it just now, for there may be some
one within earshot of us," replied Christy.

Nothing more was said, and the boat cautiously approached the schooner.
No one appeared to be on board of her, and the fugitives found that she
was loaded with cotton, even carrying a deck-load of this staple of the
South, the price of which had bounded up to an enormous figure in the
markets of the world. In the early morning the clouds and the fog were
swept away, and the sun came out. Christy found a hiding-place on the
other side of the creek, in a dense mass of bushes, where the boat was
drawn out of the water.

A spot which commanded a full view of the schooner had been selected,
the boat was turned upside down so as to afford a shelter, and the weary
Unionists went to sleep, for they were not likely to be disturbed on
this side of the creek. It was noon when they woke, and it looked as
though something was going on at the vessel. About half a dozen negroes
were to be seen on the deck-load of cotton; and a little later in the
day, Colonel Passford and Lonley were observed talking together. But
nothing was done that day, and the night came on. Christy was not
satisfied with his information, and as soon as it was dark, the boat
was launched, and the fugitives pulled over to the schooner.

"Who's in dat boat?" shouted a negro, showing himself at the rail of the
vessel.

"I am," replied Christy, rather indefinitely.

"Be you de new mate, sar?" demanded the man.

"I am," answered Christy, at a venture.

"We done wait free days for you, an' Massa Lonley be mighty glad to see
you."

"Where is Captain Lonley now?" asked the lieutenant.

"Stoppin' wid Massa colonel. He done tole me to call him if de mate
come. Dis nigger gwine to do dat," added the man.

"Stop a little," added Christy, as he climbed on board of the vessel,
followed by Flint. "How many men have you on board?"

"Six men wid de cook."

"Are these men sailors?"

"Dey all done work aboard a vessel, but dey ain't much sailors."

"All free niggers?"

"No, sar; wish dey was."

"Where are the rest of the men?"

"In de fo'castle, sar. De capin specks de mate come to-night, an' I
reckon we's gwine down de bay right off den."

"Go and call the captain then," added Christy, as confidently as though
he had stood on his own ground.

The negro hastened away as fast as his legs would carry him, and in
a few minutes Colonel Passford and Captain Lonley came on board. The
latter seemed to be hung on wires, he was so active; and even before he
saluted the new mate, he called all hands and directed them to hoist the
mainsail.

"I am glad to see you, Fetters," said the captain, extending his hand to
him. "I expected you yesterday."

"My business was such that I could not leave," replied Christy.

It was very dark, and the captain did not recognize him.




CHAPTER XXX

THE PRIZE-MASTER OF THE JUDITH


The weather had been clear all day, with quite a fresh breeze, and the
same conditions prevailed after dark. Colonel Passford seemed to have a
great deal to say to Captain Lonley, now that the time for sailing had
come, and he occupied the attention of the latter so that neither of
them could observe the new mate, if he were disposed to do so. As soon
as Christy perceived the _rle_ which circumstances had laid out for
him, he put his hand into a slush-tub he found in the waist, and
anointed his face with the filthy stuff. There was just color enough in
the compound of grease and dirt to change his complexion, if it had been
light enough to observe his physiognomy. Flint did the same thing.

"You will have to take your chances when you come to the entrance of the
bay," said Colonel Passford, nervously. "This cargo is worth a fortune,
and we are in sore need of the supplies which its value will purchase
for us."

"I think I understand the matter perfectly, colonel," replied Lonley,
who did not seem to take kindly to any advice from a landsman.

"Do not take any unnecessary risks, Captain Lonley, for more than the
value of the cotton is at stake," continued the planter.

"I have a plan of my own which I am confident will take me through the
blockade all right," added the captain.

"You must remember that my brother's steamer is on the blockade, and
that she makes over twenty knots an hour."

"I shall pretend to be a prize of the Bellevite long enough to distract
the attention of the fleet," added Lonley, impatiently.

"I don't understand these things, and I shall leave you to manage the
affair as you think best; but I beg you will use all proper caution,"
continued Colonel Passford. "Here are the ship's papers. You will give
the one on the top to the officer from the fort, and he will cause you
no delay."

Lonley took the papers, and thrust them into his pocket without any
reply. Christy had taken charge of the hoisting of the mainsail without
waiting for any special orders, and Flint was doing his best to assist
him. The negroes, though not expert seamen, knew the ropes of a
schooner, and they did very well with Flint in their midst.

"We are going to have a fresh breeze, Fetters," said Captain Lonley,
as the new mate came near him.

"It looks like it now," added Christy, changing his voice as much as he
could, and as he had done before when he spoke to the captain.

"If things are not favorable when you get to the forte, I think you had
better anchor inside of the point," suggested the planter, who could not
be blamed for being deeply interested in the fate of his cotton, and the
fortune which was locked up in it.

"Of course, I shall have to do that if necessary; but I don't like to do
that, for every blockader will watch her all the time if I do," replied
Captain Lonley, still maintaining his respectful demeanor, though it
seemed to be hard work.

By this time the mainsail was set, and was banging in the lively breeze.
The negro sailors seemed to have become weary with wasting the day
in the sailing of the schooner, and they worked with a good deal of
enthusiasm.

"Now set the foresail, Fetters. I don't think we can carry the
topsails," said the captain. "Isn't that a white man with the hands?"
asked he, as the men went to the foremast.

"That's a man I brought along with me," replied Christy. "He is an able
seaman, and he is very anxious to get to some port outside where he can
obtain a berth as mate."

"All right; I thought the work was going on exceedingly well, and his
presence explains it," added the captain.

"He owns the boat in which we came over here, and I think we had better
hoist it on deck," said the mate.

"All right; do so, Fetters. I suppose you have nothing on your hands?"

"Nothing very particular," replied Christy.

"I am instructed to buy a fast steamer if I can find one, even if I have
to go to England to obtain her. What do you say to taking the berth of
first officer in her, Fetters, for I know that you are a sailor, and
that you have pluck enough to fire a gun?"

"Such a position would suit me first rate," replied Christy, with proper
enthusiasm.

Still Lonley did not recognize his voice, and he took especial pains
that he should not. But this state of things could not long continue. If
the Unionist went into the cabin where there was a light, he could not
help betraying himself. It was necessary to provide against this or any
similar emergency very soon. He had already arranged his plan, and it
was his purpose to carry it into execution as soon as the vessel was
fully clear of the creek.

The boat was hoisted on the deck; the fore and main sail were set, and
everything was in readiness for a departure. Colonel Passford, after
repeating some of his admonition to the captain, shook hands with him,
and stepped down upon the wharf. Lonley gave the order to stand by the
jib, and cast off the fasts. The two principal sails filled on the
starboard tack, the jib went up in the twinkling of an eye under the
direction of Flint, and the schooner began to gather headway. The
captain was at the helm, for he would trust no other there, and Christy
went forward.

"Set the fore topmast staysail," said the mate; but he was willing the
crew should execute the order in their own way, for he called the
master's mate to him. "The biggest job is yet to be done," he added,
in a low tone.

"What is that?" asked Flint.

"To get possession of the vessel," replied Christy, impressively.

"That will be an easy matter, with nothing but niggers on board," added
Flint.

They talked together for a few minutes, and the plan was arranged. Flint
saw that the fore topmast staysail was properly set and trimmed. The two
Unionists on board did not even know the name of the schooner, but she
gathered headway as she approached the mouth of the creek, and went
along at a very satisfactory rate. The mate of the vessel and his fellow
fugitive then went aft to be ready for the decisive action in which they
were to engage. But they had hardly reached the quarter-deck before the
schooner was hailed by a boat.

"Schooner, ahoy! On board the Judith!" shouted a man.

"In the boat!" replied the captain. "Who's there?"

"Fetters!" responded the boatman.

"Fetters!" exclaimed Captain Lonley, apparently bewildered by the reply.
"It seems to me that Fetterses are plenty to-night."

But this was all he was permitted to say, for the stroke of a handspike,
in the hands of Flint, fell upon his head at this instant, and he
dropped upon the quarter-deck like a log. At the same moment, Christy
sprang to the wheel, and the schooner was not allowed to broach to. She
dashed on her course, increasing her speed every moment, without heeding
the boat that had hailed her. In the darkness, the genuine Fetters, as
doubtless he was in the boat, could not have seen in what manner Captain
Lonley had been disposed of, and all the crew were forward, so that they
were no wiser.

"Judith, ahoy!" repeated the genuine and only true Fetters, at the top
of his lungs, as the schooner hurried off on her course. "I am Fetters,
the mate!"

"All right!" replied Christy. "I will see you in the morning. Come on
board at six o'clock."

Mr. Fetters said no more, and probably he concluded that the Judith had
gone to get firewood for the galley, to fill her water-casks, or for
some similar purpose. The fictitious Mr. Fetters kept his place at the
wheel. The binnacle had been lighted by the cook, and he knew the exact
course for the entrance to the bay. He felt that he was in possession of
the Judith and her valuable cargo; and he had become so hardened in his
patriotic duty that he felt no compunction of conscience because the
vessel and cotton had been wrested from his uncle.

As Colonel Passford had not scrupled to attempt to capture the
magnificent steamer of his own brother, it would be a poor rule that
would not work both ways. Besides, the proceeds of the sale of the cargo
were to be expended in the purchase of supplies, and a steamer to carry
them, for the use of the Confederacy. His uncle, from his elevated
standpoint of duty, would have an opportunity to consider the
application of his stringent views on the other side of the question.

"I hope he is not dead," said Christy, as Flint bent over the prostrate
form of the captain.

"I don't know; but I am going to take him below, and lock him up in his
stateroom, where the crew will not see him," replied Flint.

"That is right; and I would help you if I could leave the wheel long
enough," replied Christy.

"I can handle him alone; but see that none of the sailors come aft while
I am about it," added the master's mate, as he dragged the form to the
companion-way.

In such a work as he had on his hands, he had the strength of two men.
Without any great difficulty, he dragged the body to the cabin, and then
into one of the two staterooms he found, which was lighted. It was a
more difficult task, for Lonley was a heavy man, but he placed the form
in the berth. His first duty was to examine very carefully the pockets
of the captain. He secured the file of papers first, and then drew a
large naval revolver from each of his hip pockets. Then he took his
papers from his pocket-book, but left his money, watch, and other
valuables where he found them.

After a careful examination of the insensible form, he was satisfied
that he was not dead, though he might yet die from the blow he had
received. He locked the door of the room, and went on deck. He gave one
of the revolvers to Christy, and retained the other, handing over to him
also all the papers he had taken.

"This is the biggest venture we have undertaken yet," said Flint, as he
seated himself by Christy.

"But everything has gone well so far," replied the lieutenant. "If you
are not promoted for this and the Teaser affair, Flint, it shall not be
for the want of any recommendation on my part."

"Thank you, Mr. Passford; you are very kind. I hope your services will
be recognized in the same manner," returned the master's mate.

"I don't care so much for myself, and I should not cry if I were never
to become anything more than a midshipman."

"All I have done has been to obey your orders, and follow your lead;
and if anybody is promoted for the two affairs in which we have been
engaged, you are surely the one who is entitled to it."

"Well, we will do our duty, whether we are promoted or not," added
Christy.

It was not more than nine o'clock in the evening when the Judith came
out of the creek, and in about four hours she was approaching Fort
Morgan. She was still within the enemy's lines, and her acting captain
was disposed to do everything in a regular manner, especially as he
had the means of doing so. He had not the same risk to run in getting
through the blockading fleet that Captain Lonley would have had, and
he promptly decided to take his chances without waiting for a dark
and foggy night. A boat came off from the inner side of the fort, and
Christy ordered Flint to bring her to.

The permit to pass the forts was in due form, and signed by the proper
officials. The officer in the boat examined it carefully by the light
of a lantern, and declared that he was satisfied with it. Then he asked
some questions, which the acting commander of the Judith answered. The
toughest inquiry he made was as to how he expected to get through the
blockaders in a clear night like that. Christy assured him that he had a
plan which he was confident would carry him through without difficulty.

The schooner filled away again, and passed through the main channel;
and in another hour she was in the midst of the Union fleet. There was
a rattling of drums, a hissing of steam, and energetic commands heard as
soon as the Judith was made out in the darkness, and doubtless a vision
of prize-money flitted through the brains of officers and seamen. But
Christy soon impaired the vividness of these fancies by ordering the
foresail of the schooner to be taken in, and then the fore topmast
staysail. The expectant ships' companies were not willing to believe
that the vessel had come out for the purpose of surrendering.

"Schooner, ahoy!" shouted the officer of a boat sent off by the nearest
blockader. "What vessel is that?"

"The Judith, prize to the United States steamer Bellevite," replied
Christy, "Kindly inform me where the Bellevite lies."

In another half-hour, Christy had dropped his anchor a cable's length
from the Bellevite. Instructing Flint to ascertain the condition of
Lonley, the lieutenant went on board of her to make his report, using
the boat they had captured at Mobile, pulled by two of the negroes.

"I have come on board, Captain Breaker," said Christy, as he met the
commander, who had come on deck at the alarm.

"I see you have," replied the captain, grasping him by the hand. "I have
been terribly worried about you, Christy."

"I am all right, sir; and so is Mr. Flint, who was with me. We have
brought off a schooner of two hundred tons, loaded with cotton,"
continued Christy, as modestly as the circumstances would permit.

"I am very anxious to hear your report, Mr. Passford," said the
commander.

"Excuse me, sir, but the captain of that schooner is badly wounded, and
needs Dr. Linscott as soon as possible."

The surgeon was sent on board of the Judith. As Paul Vapoor caught a
sight of the returned third lieutenant, he hugged him as though he had
been separated from him for years instead of a few days. His welcome
was quite as cordial, though not as demonstrative, from the rest of the
officers. Then he went to the cabin with the captain, where he reported
all that had transpired since he had been separated from his companions
on board of the Teaser. He was warmly commended for his bravery and
skill, and Captain Breaker assured him that he should be remembered
in the reports to the department.

Captain Lonley was conveyed on board of the Bellevite, where he was
committed to the sick bay. He had recovered his senses, but it was
likely, the surgeon said, that it would be a month before his health was
restored. The Teaser had not yet been sent away; but the next day the
third lieutenant was appointed prize-master of the steamer, and Flint of
the schooner, for he had been the master of a coaster, and was competent
for the position.

A considerable crew was put on board of the Teaser, and both vessels
were sent to New York instead of Key West. The steamer was expected to
tow the Judith when necessary, and defend her if she was attacked. But
both arrived at their destination without any mishap, and both were
condemned; the Teaser was purchased by the government, for she was
likely to be a very useful vessel on account of her speed and light
draught.

Christy had a brief leave of absence after he had served as a witness
against the captured vessels. He had seen his father, mother, and sister
on his arrival, and they were as proud of him as though he had been
made a rear-admiral. Captain Breaker had written to his father of his
disappearance on Santa Rosa Island, and had no doubt he had been made
a prisoner within the enemy's lines. Christy brought the news of his
escape himself, which made him even doubly welcome at Bonnydale.
Certainly the young lieutenant had never been so happy before in his
life.

Captain Passford was a man of great influence, though he held no
position in authority. At the first opportunity he obtained to talk with
him, Christy made a strong plea in favor of the promotion of Flint. The
late owner of the Bellevite knew him well. The master's mate had been a
schoolmaster, and was very well educated; but he had a taste for the
sea. He had made several foreign voyages, and had bought a schooner
then, of which he went as master. But he had sold his vessel to great
advantage, and, having nothing to do, he shipped as third officer of the
Bellevite.

Sampson, who had come home as chief engineer of the Teaser, was also
remembered by Christy, who interceded for his promotion, or rather
appointment. The government promptly obtained possession from the court
of the prize-steamer, and the repairs and alterations upon her were
begun at once. She had proved herself to be a fast sailer, and had
logged sixteen knots, so that much was expected of her.

Captain Passford, after his son had pleaded so earnestly for the
promotion of the master's mate and the fireman, asked Christy what he
expected in the way of promotion for himself. The young officer did not
ask for any promotion, he was abundantly satisfied with his present
rank, and he rather preferred to retain it. His father laughed, and
declared that he was very glad of it, for he had some delicacy in asking
favors for a member of his own family.

Corny still remained at the house of his uncle; and he was as
thoroughbred a rebel as his father, though he said next to nothing
about his "cause." At a later period both he and Major Pierson were duly
exchanged; but the gallant officer had come to the conclusion that Miss
Florry Passford was very far from being infatuated with him.

As the Bronx, which was the name given to the Teaser at the suggestion
of Captain Passford, was to be ready about as soon as the legal
proceedings would permit of the departure of the officers and seamen of
the Bellevite, they were ordered to return to their ship in her. Flint's
commission as a master, and Sampson's as an assistant engineer, were
received. Christy's companion in the night expeditions had not expected
to be anything more than a midshipman, and he was immeasurably delighted
at his good fortune. Then it appeared that other influences than that of
Captain Passford had been employed, for Christy, almost in spite of
himself, was promoted to the rank of master, his commission antedating
that of Flint.

Mr. Blowitt was appointed to the command of the Bronx, with Master
Passford as first lieutenant, and Master Flint as second; and Christy
was to take her to the Gulf. She was to be used at the discretion of the
flag officer after she had delivered her passengers on board of the
Bellevite, and received her new commander.

The Bronx was soon ready for sea with her new ship's company, and sailed
for her destination, where Christy was to make some further inquiries
into operations ON THE BLOCKADE.




_OLIVER OPTIC'S BOOKS._

THE BLUE AND THE GRAY

SERIES

Illustrated. With Emblematic Dies. Each volume bound in Blue and Gray.
Per volume, $1.50.

  TAKEN BY THE ENEMY.

  WITHIN THE ENEMY'S LINES.

  The opening of a new series of books from the pen of Oliver Optic
  is bound to arouse the highest anticipation in the minds of boy and
  girl readers. There never has been a more interesting writer in the
  field of juvenile literature than Mr. W. T. Adams, who, under his
  well-known pseudonym, is known and admired by every boy and girl
  in the country, and by thousands who have long since passed the
  boundaries of youth, yet who remember with pleasure the genial,
  interesting pen that did so much to interest, instruct and entertain
  their younger years. The present volume opens "The Blue and the Gray
  Series," a title that is sufficiently indicative of the nature and
  spirit of the series, of which the first volume is now presented,
  while the name of Oliver Optic is sufficient warrant of the
  absorbing style of narrative. "Taken by the Enemy," the first book
  of the series, is as bright and entertaining as any work that Mr.
  Adams has yet put forth, and will be as eagerly perused as any that
  has borne his name. It would not be fair to the prospective reader
  to deprive him of the zest which comes from the unexpected, by
  entering into a synopsis of the story. A word, however, should be
  said in regard to the beauty and appropriateness of the binding,
  which makes it a most attractive volume.--_Boston Budget._

  "Taken by the Enemy" has just come from the press, an announcement
  that cannot but appeal to every healthy boy from ten to fifteen
  years of age in the country. "No writer of the present day." says
  the Boston _Commonwealth_, "whose aim has been to hit the boyish
  heart, has been as successful as Oliver Optic. There is a period in
  the life of every youth, just about the time that he is collecting
  postage-stamps, and before his legs are long enough for a bicycle,
  when he has the Oliver Optic fever. He catches it by reading a few
  stray pages somewhere, and then there is nothing for it but to let
  the matter take its course. Relief comes only when the last page of
  the last book is read; and then there are relapses whenever a new
  book appears until one is safely on through the teens. The boys will
  be delighted to know, therefore, that 'Taken by the Enemy' is but
  the first of six books to come out in rapid succession, all based on
  the thrilling incidents of the late war."--_Literary News._


_OLIVER OPTIC'S BOOKS._

THE BOAT-BUILDER SERIES

Completed in Six Volumes. Illustrated.
Per Vol., $1.25.

1. ALL ADRIFT;
      Or, The Goldwing Club.
2. SNUG HARBOR;
      Or, The Champlain Mechanics.
3. SQUARE AND COMPASS;
      Or, Building the House.
4. STEM TO STERN;
      Or, Building the Boat.
5. ALL TAUT;
      Or, Rigging the Boat.
6. READY ABOUT;
      Or, Sailing the Boat.

  The series includes in six successive volumes the whole art of
  boat-building, boat-rigging, boat-managing, and practical hints to
  make the ownership of a boat pay. A great deal of useful information
  will be given in this Boat-Building series, and in each book a very
  interesting story is sure to be interwoven with the information.
  Every reader will be interested at once in "Dory," the hero of
  "All Adrift," and one of the characters to be retained in the future
  volumes of the series, at least there are already several of his
  recently made friends who do not want to lose sight of him, and this
  will be the case of pretty much every boy who makes his acquaintance
  in "All Adrift."

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *

Errata Noted by Transcriber:

En Reconnaissance de la Bont de son Pre,
  _text reads "Pre" (with acute accent for grave)_
and to be above any such villainy
  _text reads "villany"_
"He is on board--of the Bellevite," the third lieutenant
  _text reads "lientenant"_





End of Project Gutenberg's Within The Enemy's Lines, by Oliver Optic

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK WITHIN THE ENEMY'S LINES ***

***** This file should be named 18264-8.txt or 18264-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/1/8/2/6/18264/

Produced by Louise Hope, David Garcia, Juliet Sutherland
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Kentuckiana Digital Libra


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

Produced by Louise Hope, David Garcia, Juliet Sutherland
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Kentuckiana Digital
Library)






THE BLUE AND THE GRAY--AFLOAT

Two colors cloth  Emblematic Dies  Illustrated
Price per volume $1.50

  TAKEN BY THE ENEMY
  WITHIN THE ENEMY'S LINES
  ON THE BLOCKADE
  STAND BY THE UNION
  FIGHTING FOR THE RIGHT
  A VICTORIOUS UNION

THE BLUE AND THE GRAY--ON LAND

Two colors cloth  Emblematic Dies  Illustrated
Price per volume $1.50

  BROTHER AGAINST BROTHER
  IN THE SADDLE
  A LIEUTENANT AT EIGHTEEN
  ON THE STAFF
  AT THE FRONT
  AN UNDIVIDED UNION

Any Volume Sold Separately

Lee and Shepard Publishers
  BOSTON




  [Illustration: Mulgrum and the engineer.]




                      The

               BLUE AND THE GRAY

                     Series

                 [Illustration]

                By Oliver Optic

                ON THE BLOCKADE




         _The Blue and the Gray Series_

                ON THE BLOCKADE

                       by
                  OLIVER OPTIC

                   Author of
"The Army and Navy Series" "Young America Abroad"
"The Great Western Series" "The Woodville Stories"
"The Starry Flag Series" "The Boat-Club Stories"
"The Onward and Upward Series" "The Yacht-Club Series"
"The Lake Shore Series" "The Riverdale Series"
"The Boat-Builder Series" "Taken by the Enemy"
        "Within the Enemy's Lines" etc.


                     BOSTON

          LEE AND SHEPARD  Publishers




      Copyright, 1890, by Lee and Shepard
             _All rights reserved._

                On the Blockade.




               To my Son-in-Law,

               SOL SMITH RUSSELL,

        of the United States of America,
   though Residing in Minneapolis, Minnesota,

                 who is always
"On the Blockade" against Melancholy, "The Blues,"
           and all similar maladies,

                  This Volume
          is affectionately dedicated.




PREFACE


"ON THE BLOCKADE" is the third of "The Blue and the Gray Series." Like
the first and second volumes, its incidents are dated back to the War
of the Rebellion, and located in the midst of its most stirring scenes
on the Southern coast, where the naval operations of the United States
contributed their full share to the final result.

The writer begs to remind his readers again that he has not felt called
upon to invest his story with the dignity of history, or in all cases
to mingle fiction with actual historic occurrences. He believes that all
the scenes of the story are not only possible, but probable, and that
just such events as he has narrated really and frequently occurred in
the days of the Rebellion.

The historian is forbidden to make his work more palatable or more
interesting by the intermixture of fiction with fact, while the
story-writer, though required to be reasonably consistent with the
spirit and the truth of history, may wander from veritable details, and
use his imagination in the creation of incidents upon which the grand
result is reached. It would not be allowable to make the Rebellion a
success, if the writer so desired, even on the pages of romance; and it
would not be fair or just to ignore the bravery, the self-sacrifice, and
the heroic endurance of the Southern people in a cause they believed to
be holy and patriotic, as almost universally admitted at the present
time, any more than it would be to lose sight of the magnificent spirit,
the heroism, the courage, and the persistence, of the Northern people in
accomplishing what they believed then, and still believe, was a holy and
patriotic duty in the preservation of the Union.

Incidents not inconsistent with the final result, or with the spirit
of the people on either side in the great conflict are of comparatively
little consequence. That General Lee or General Grant turned this or
that corner in reaching Appomattox may be important, but the grand
historical tableau is the Christian hero, noble in the midst of defeat,
disaster, and ruin, formally rendering his sword to the impassible but
magnanimous conqueror as the crowning event of a long and bloody war.
The details are historically important, though overshadowed by the
mighty result of the great conflict.

Many of the personages of the preceding volumes have been introduced in
the present one, and the central figure remains the same. The writer is
willing to admit that his hero is an ideal character, though his lofty
tone and patriotic spirit were fully paralleled by veritable individuals
during the war; and he is not prepared to apologize for the abundant
success which attended the career of Christy Passford. Those who really
struggled as earnestly and faithfully deserved his good fortune, though
they did not always obtain it.

  Dorchester, Mass., April 24, 1890.




CONTENTS

                                              Page
CHAPTER I.
The United States Steamer Bronx                 15

CHAPTER II.
A Dinner for the Confederacy                    26

CHAPTER III.
The Intruder at the Cabin Door                  37

CHAPTER IV.
A Deaf and Dumb Mystery                         48

CHAPTER V.
A Confidential Steward                          59

CHAPTER VI.
A Mission up the Foremast                       70

CHAPTER VII.
An Interview on the Bridge                      81

CHAPTER VIII.
Important Information, if True                  92

CHAPTER IX.
A Volunteer Captain's Clerk                    103

CHAPTER X.
The Unexpected Orders                          114

CHAPTER XI.
Another Reading of the Sealed Orders           125

CHAPTER XII.
A Sail on the Starboard Bow                    136

CHAPTER XIII.
The Steamer in the Fog                         147

CHAPTER XIV.
The Confederate Steamer Scotian                158

CHAPTER XV.
The Scotian becomes the Ocklockonee            169

CHAPTER XVI.
Captain Passford's Final Orders                180

CHAPTER XVII.
A Couple of Astonished Conspirators            191

CHAPTER XVIII.
A Triangular Action with Great Guns            202

CHAPTER XIX.
On the Deck of the Arran                       213

CHAPTER XX.
The New Commander of the Bronx                 224

CHAPTER XXI.
An Expedition in the Gulf                      235

CHAPTER XXII.
A Night Expedition in the Boats                246

CHAPTER XXIII.
The Visit to a Shore Battery                   257

CHAPTER XXIV.
Captain Lonley of the Steamer Havana           268

CHAPTER XXV.
The New Engineer of the Prize Steamer          279

CHAPTER XXVI.
The Battle with the Soldiers                   290

CHAPTER XXVII.
The Innocent Captain of the Garrison           301

CHAPTER XXVIII.
The Bearer of Despatches                       312

CHAPTER XXIX.
The New Commander of the Vixen                 323

CHAPTER XXX.
The Action with a Privateer Steamer            334

CHAPTER XXXI.
A Short Visit to Bonnydale                     345




ON THE BLOCKADE




CHAPTER I

THE UNITED STATES STEAMER BRONX


"She is a fine little steamer, father, without the possibility of a
doubt," said Lieutenant Passford, who was seated at the table with his
father in the captain's cabin on board of the Bronx. "I don't feel quite
at home here, and I don't quite like the idea of being taken out of the
Bellevite."

"You are not going to sea for the fun of it, my son," replied Captain
Passford. "You are not setting out on a yachting excursion, but on the
most serious business in the world."

"I know and feel all that, father, but I have spent so many pleasant
days, hours, weeks, and months on board of the Bellevite, that I am
very sorry to leave her," added Christy Passford, who had put on his new
uniform, which was that of master in the United States Navy; and he was
as becoming to the uniform as the uniform was to him.

"You cannot well help having some regrets at leaving the Bellevite;
but you must remember that your life on board of her was mostly in the
capacity of a pleasure-seeker, though you made a good use of your time
and of your opportunities for improvement; and that is the reason why
you have made such remarkable progress in your present profession."

"I shall miss my friends on board of the Bellevite. I have sailed with
all her officers, and Paul Vapoor and I have been cronies for years,"
continued Christy, with a shade of gloom on his bright face.

"You will probably see them occasionally, and if your life is spared
you may again find yourself an officer of the Bellevite. But I think
you have no occasion to indulge in any regrets," said Captain Passford,
imparting a cheerful expression to his dignified countenance. "Allow me
to call your attention to the fact that you are the commander of this
fine little steamer. Here you are in your own cabin, and you are still
nothing but a boy, hardly eighteen years old."

"If I have not earned my rank, it is not my fault that I have it,"
answered Christy, hardly knowing whether to be glad or sorry for his
rapid advancement. "I have never asked for anything; I did not ask or
expect to be promoted. I was satisfied with my rank as a midshipman."

"I did not ask for your promotion, though I could probably have procured
for you the rank of master when you entered the navy. I do not like to
ask favors for a member of my own family. I have wished you to feel that
you were in the service of your country because it needs you, and not
for glory or profit."

"And I have tried to feel so, father."

"I think you have felt so, my son; and I am prouder of the fact that you
are a disinterested patriot than of the rank you have nobly and bravely
won," said Captain Passford, as he took some letters from his pocket,
from which he selected one bearing an English postage stamp. "I have
a letter from one of my agents in England, which, I think, contains
valuable information. I have called the attention of the government to
these employes of mine, and they will soon pass from my service to that
of the naval department. The information sent me has sometimes been very
important."

"I know that myself, for the information that came from that source
enabled the Bellevite to capture the Killbright," added Christy.

"The contents of the letter in my hand have been sent to the Secretary
of the Navy; but it will do no harm for you to possess the information
given to me," continued Captain Passford, as he opened the letter. "But
I see a man at work at the foot of the companion way, and I don't care
to post the whole ship's company on this subject."

"That is Pink Mulgrum," said Christy with a smile on his face. "He is
deaf and dumb, and he cannot make any use of what you say."

"Don't be sure of anything, Christy, except your religion and your
patriotism, in these times," added Captain Passford, as he rose and
closed the door of the cabin.

"I don't think there is much danger from a deaf mute, father," said the
young commander of the Bronx laughing.

"Perhaps not; but when you have war intelligence to communicate, it is
best to believe that every person has ears, and that every door has a
keyhole. I learn from this letter that the Scotian sailed from Glasgow,
and the Arran from Leith. The agent is of the opinion that both these
steamers are fitted out by the same owners, who have formed a company,
apparently to furnish the South with gunboats for its navy, as well as
with needed supplies. In his letter my correspondent gives me the reason
for this belief on his part."

"Does your agent give you any description of the vessels, father?" asked
Christy, his eyes sparkling with the interest he felt in the
information.

"Not a very full description, my son, for no strangers were allowed on
board of either of them, for very obvious reasons; but they are both of
less than five hundred tons burthen, are of precisely the same model and
build, evidently constructed in the same yard. Both had been pleasure
yachts, though owned by different gentlemen. Both sailed on the same
day, the Scotian from Greenock and the Arran from Leith, March 3."

Christy opened his pocket diary, and put his finger on the date
mentioned, counting up the days that had elapsed from that time to the
present. Captain Passford could not help smiling at the interest his son
manifested in the intelligence he had brought to him. The acting
commander of the Bronx went over his calculation again.

"It is fourteen days since these vessels sailed," said he, looking at
his father. "I doubt if your information will be of any value to me, for
I suppose the steamers were selected on account of their great speed, as
is the case with all blockade runners."

"Undoubtedly they were chosen for their speed, for a slow vessel does
not amount to much in this sort of service," replied Captain Passford.
"I received my letter day before yesterday, when the two vessels had
been out twelve days."

"If they are fast steamers, they ought to be approaching the Southern
coast by this time," suggested Christy.

"This is a windy month, and a vessel bound to the westward would
encounter strong westerly gales, so that she could hardly make a quick
passage. Then these steamers will almost certainly put in at Nassau or
the Bermudas, if not for coal and supplies, at least to obtain the
latest intelligence from the blockaded coast, and to pick up a pilot for
the port to which they are bound. The agent thinks it is possible that
the Scotian and Arran will meet some vessel to the southward of the Isle
of Wight that will put an armament on board of them. He had written to
another of my agents at Southampton to look up this matter. It is a
quick mail from the latter city to New York, and I may get another
letter on this subject before you sail, Christy."

"My orders may come off to me to-day," added the acting commander. "I am
all ready to sail, and I am only waiting for them."

"If these two steamers sail in company, as they are likely to do if they
are about equal in speed, and if they take on board an armament, it will
hardly be prudent for you to meddle with them," said Captain Passford
with a smile, though he had as much confidence in the prudence as in the
bravery of his son.

"What shall I do, father, run away from them?" asked Christy, opening
his eyes very wide.

"Certainly, my son. There is as much patriotism in running away from a
superior force as there is in fighting an equal, for if the government
should lose your vessel and lose you and your ship's company, it would
be a disaster of more or less consequence to your country."

"I hardly think I shall fall in with the Scotian and the Arran, so I
will not consider the question of running away from them," said Christy
laughing.

"You have not received your orders yet, but they will probably require
you to report at once to the flag-officer in the Gulf, and perhaps
they will not permit you to look up blockade runners on the high seas,"
suggested Captain Passford. "These vessels may be fully armed and
manned, in charge of Confederate naval officers; and doubtless they will
be as glad to pick up the Bronx as you would be to pick up the Scotian
or the Arran. You don't know yet whether they will come as simple
blockade runners, or as naval vessels flying the Confederate flag.
Whatever your orders, Christy, don't allow yourself to be carried away
by any Quixotic enthusiasm."

"I don't think I have any more than half as much audacity as Captain
Breaker said I had. As I look upon it, my first duty is to deliver my
ship over to the flag-officer in the Gulf; and I suppose I shall be
instructed to pick up a Confederate cruiser or a blockade runner, if
one should cross my course."

"Obey your orders, Christy, whatever they may be. Now, I should like
to look over the Bronx before I go on shore," said Captain Passford.
"I think you said she was of about two hundred tons."

"That was what they said down south; but she is about three hundred
tons," replied Christy, as he proceeded to show his father the cabin
in which the conversation had taken place.

The captain's cabin was in the stern of the vessel, according to the
orthodox rule in naval vessels. Of course it was small, though it seemed
large to Christy who had spent so much of his leisure time in the cabin
of the Florence, his sailboat on the Hudson. It was substantially fitted
up, with little superfluous ornamentation; but it was a complete parlor,
as a landsman would regard it. From it, on the port side opened the
captain's state room, which was quite ample for a vessel no larger
than the Bronx. Between it and the pantry on the starboard side, was
a gangway leading from the foot of the companion way, by which the
captain's cabin and the ward room were accessible from the quarter deck.

Crossing the gangway at the foot of the steps, Christy led the way
into the ward room, where the principal officers were accommodated.
It contained four berths, with portires in front of them, which could
be drawn out so as to inclose each one in a temporary state room.
The forward berth on the starboard side was occupied by the first
lieutenant, and the after one by the second lieutenant, according to the
custom in the navy. On the port side, the forward berth belonged to the
chief engineer, and the after one to the surgeon. Forward of this was
the steerage, in which the boatswain, gunner, carpenter, the assistant
engineers, and the steward were berthed. Each of these apartments was
provided with a table upon which the meals were served to the officers
occupying it. The etiquette of a man-of-war is even more exacting than
that of a drawing room on shore.

Captain Passford was then conducted to the deck where he found the
officers and seamen engaged in their various duties. Besides his son,
the former owner of the Bellevite was acquainted with only two persons
on board of the Bronx, Sampson, the engineer, and Flint, the acting
first lieutenant, both of whom had served on board of the steam yacht.
Christy's father gave them a hearty greeting, and both were as glad to
see him as he was to greet them. Captain Passford then looked over the
rest of the ship's company with a deeper interest than he cared to
manifest, for they were to some extent bound up with the immediate
future of his son. It was not such a ship's company as that which manned
the Bellevite, though composed of much good material. The captain shook
hands with his son, and went on board of his boat. Two hours later he
came on board again.




CHAPTER II

A DINNER FOR THE CONFEDERACY


Christy Passford was not a little surprised to see his father so soon
after his former visit, and he was confident that he had some good
reason for coming. He conducted him at once to his cabin, where Captain
Passford immediately seated himself at the table, and drew from his
pocket a telegram.

"I found this on my desk when I went to my office," said he, opening a
cable message, and placing it before Christy.

"'Mutton, three veal, four sea chickens,'" Christy read from the paper
placed before him, laughing all the time as he thought it was a joke of
some sort. "Signed 'Warnock.' It looks as though somebody was going to
have a dinner, father. Mutton, veal, and four sea chickens seem to form
the substantial of the feast, though I never ate any sea chickens."

"Perhaps somebody will have a dinner, but I hope it will prove to be
indigestible to those for whom it is provided," added Captain Passford,
amused at the comments of his son.

"The message is signed by Warnock. I don't happen to have the pleasure
of his acquaintance, and I don't see why he has taken the trouble to
send you this bill of fare," chuckled the commander of the Bronx.

"This bill of fare is of more importance to me, and especially to you,
than you seem to understand."

"It is all Greek to me; and I wonder why Warnock, whoever he may be, has
spent his money in sending you such a message, though I suppose you know
who is to eat this dinner."

"The expense of sending the cablegram is charged to me, though the
dinner is prepared for the Confederate States of America. Of course I
understand it, for if I could not, it would not have been sent to me,"
replied Captain Passford, assuming a very serious expression. "You know
Warnock, for he has often been at Bonnydale, though not under the name
he signs to this message. My three agents, one in the north, one in the
south, and one in the west of England, have each an assumed name. They
are Otis, Barnes, and Wilson, and you know them all. They have been
captains or mates in my employ; and they know all about a vessel when
they see it."

"I know them all very well, and they are all good friends of mine,"
added Christy.

"Warnock is Captain Barnes, and this message comes from him. Captain
Otis signs himself Bixwell in his letters and cablegrams, and Mr.
Wilson, who was formerly mate of the Manhattan, uses the name of
Fleetley."

"I begin to see into your system, father; and I suppose the government
will carry out your plan."

"Very likely; for it would hardly be proper to send such information as
these men have to transmit in plain English, for there may be spies or
operators bribed by Confederate agents to suppress such matter."

"I see. I understand the system very well, father," said Christy.

"It is simple enough," added his father, as he took a paper from his
pocket-book.

"If you only understand it, it is simple enough."

"I can interpret the language of this message, and there is not another
person on the western continent that can do so. Now, look at the
cablegram, Christy," continued Captain Passford, as he opened the
paper he held in his hand. "What is the first word?"

"Mutton," replied the commander.

"Mutton means armed; that is to say the Scotian and the Arran took an
armament on board at some point south of England, as indicated by the
fact that the intelligence comes from Warnock. In about a week the mail
will bring me a letter from him in which he will explain how he obtained
this information."

"He must have chartered a steamer and cruised off the Isle of Wight to
pick it up," suggested Christy.

"He is instructed to do that when necessary. What is the next word?"

"'Three,'" replied Christy.

"One means large, two medium, and three small," explained his father.
"Three what, does it say?"

"'Three veal.'"

"Veal means ship's company, or crew."

"Putting the pieces together, then, 'three veal' means that the Scotian
and the Arran have small crews," said Christy, intensely interested in
the information.

"Precisely so. Read the rest of the message," added Captain Passford.

"'Four sea chickens,'" the commander read.

"'Four' means some, a few, no great number; in other words, rather
indefinite. Very likely Warnock could not obtain exact information.
'C' stands for Confederate, and 'sea' is written instead of the letter.
'Chickens' means officers. 'Four sea chickens,' translated means 'some
Confederate officers.'"

Christy had written down on a piece of paper the solution of the enigma,
as interpreted by his father, though not the symbol words of the
cablegram. He continued to write for a little longer time, amplifying
and filling in the wanting parts of the message. Then he read what he
had written, as follows: "'The Scotian and the Arran are armed; there
are some Confederate officers on board, but their ship's companies are
small.' Is that it, father?"

"That is the substance of it," replied Captain Passford, as he restored
the key of the cipher to his pocket-book, and rose from his seat. "Now
you know all that can be known on this side of the Atlantic in regard to
the two steamers. The important information is that they are armed, and
even with small crews they may be able to sink the Bronx, if you should
happen to fall in with them, or if your orders required you to be on the
lookout for them. There is a knock at the door."

Christy opened the door, and found a naval officer waiting to see him.
He handed him a formidable looking envelope, with a great seal upon it.
The young commander looked at its address, and saw that it came from the
Navy Department. With it was a letter, which he opened. It was an order
for the immediate sailing of the Bronx, the sealed orders to be opened
when she reached latitude 38 N. The messenger spoke some pleasant
words, and then took his leave. Christy returned to the cabin, and
showed the ponderous envelope to his father.

"Sealed orders, as I supposed you would have," said Captain Passford.

"And this is my order to sail immediately on receipt of it," added
Christy.

"Then I must leave you, my son; and may the blessing of God go with you
wherever your duty calls you!" exclaimed the father, not a little shaken
by his paternal feelings. "Be brave, be watchful; but be prudent under
all circumstances. Bravery and Prudence ought to be twin sisters, and
I hope you will always have one of them on each side of you. I am not
afraid that you will be a poltroon, a coward; but I do fear that your
enthusiasm may carry you farther than you ought to go."

"I hope not, father; and your last words to me shall be remembered. When
I am about to engage in any important enterprise, I will recall your
admonition, and ask myself if I am heeding it."

"That satisfies me. I wish you had such a ship's company as we had on
board of the Bellevite; but you have a great deal of good material, and
I am confident that you will make the best use of it. Remember that you
are fighting for your country and the best government God ever gave to
the nations of the earth. Be brave, be prudent; but be a Christian, and
let no mean, cruel or unworthy action stain your record."

Captain Passford took the hand of his son, and though neither of them
wept, both of them were under the influence of the strongest emotions.
Christy accompanied his father to the accommodation ladder, and shook
hands with him again as he embarked in his boat. His mother and his
sister had been on board that day, and the young commander had parted
from them with quite as much emotion as on the present occasion. The
members of the family were devotedly attached to each other, and in some
respects the event seemed like a funeral to all of them, and not less to
Christy than to the others, though he was entering upon a very exalted
duty for one of his years.

"Pass the word for Mr. Flint," said Christy, after he had watched the
receding boat that bore away his father for a few minutes.

"On duty, Captain Passford," said the first lieutenant, touching his cap
to him a few minutes later.

"Heave short the anchor, and make ready to get under way," added the
commander.

"Heave short, sir," replied Mr. Flint, as he touched his cap and
retired. "Pass the word for Mr. Giblock."

Mr. Giblock was the boatswain of the ship, though he had only the rank
of a boatswain's mate. He was an old sailor, as salt as a barrel of
pickled pork, and knew his duty from keel to truck. In a few moments his
pipe was heard, and the seamen began to walk around the capstan.

"Cable up and down, sir," said the boatswain, reporting to the second
lieutenant on the forecastle.

Mr. Lillyworth was the acting second lieutenant, though he was not to
be attached to the Bronx after she reached her destination in the Gulf.
He repeated the report from the boatswain to the first lieutenant. The
steamer was rigged as a topsail schooner; but the wind was contrary, and
no sail was set before getting under way. The capstan was manned again,
and as soon as the report came from the second lieutenant that the
anchor was aweigh, the first lieutenant gave the order to strike one
bell, which meant that the steamer was to go "ahead slow."

The Bronx had actually started on her mission, and the heart of Christy
swelled in his bosom as he looked over the vessel, and realized that
he was in command, though not for more than a week or two. All the
courtesies and ceremonies were duly attended to, and the steamer, as
soon as the anchor had been catted and fished, at the stroke of four
bells, went ahead at full speed, though, as the fires had been banked in
the furnaces, the engine was not working up to its capacity. In a couple
of hours more she was outside of Sandy Hook, and on the broad ocean. The
ship's company had been drilled to their duties, and everything worked
to the entire satisfaction of the young commander.

The wind was ahead and light. All hands had been stationed, and at four
in the afternoon, the first dog watch was on duty, and there was not
much that could be called work for any one to do. Mr. Lillyworth, the
second lieutenant, had the deck, and Christy had retired to his cabin
to think over the events of the day, especially those relating to the
Scotian and the Arran. He had not yet read his orders, and he could not
decide what he should do, even if he discovered the two steamers in
his track. He sat in his arm chair with the door of the cabin open,
and when he saw the first lieutenant on his way to the ward room,
he called him in.

"Well, Mr. Flint, what do you think of our crew?" asked the captain,
after he had seated his guest.

"I have hardly seen enough of the men to be able to form an opinion,"
replied Flint. "I am afraid we have some hard material on board, though
there are a good many first-class fellows among them."

"Of course we can not expect to get such a crew as we had in the
Bellevite. How do you like Mr. Lillyworth?" asked the commander, looking
sharply into the eye of his subordinate.

"I don't like him," replied Flint, bluntly. "You and I have been in some
tight places together, and it is best to speak our minds squarely."

"That's right, Mr. Flint. We will talk of him another time. I have
another matter on my mind just now," added Christy.

He proceeded to tell the first lieutenant something about the two
steamers.




CHAPTER III

THE INTRUDER AT THE CABIN DOOR


Before he said anything about the Scotian and the Arran, Christy,
mindful of the injunction of his father, had closed the cabin door,
the portire remaining drawn as it was before. When he had taken this
precaution, he related some of the particulars which had been given to
him earlier in the day.

"It is hardly worth while to talk about the matter yet awhile," added
Christy. "I have my sealed orders, and I can not open the envelope until
we are in latitude 38, and that will be sometime to-morrow forenoon."

"I don't think that Captain Folkner, who expected to be in command
of the Teaser, as she was called before we put our hands upon her,
overestimated her speed," replied Lieutenant Flint, consulting his
watch. "We are making fifteen knots an hour just now, and Mr. Sampson
is not hurrying her. I have been watching her very closely since we left
Sandy Hook, and I really believe she will make eighteen knots with a
little crowding."

"What makes you think so, Flint?" asked Christy, much interested in the
statement of the first lieutenant.

"I suppose it is natural for a sailor to fall in love with his ship,
and that is my condition in regard to the Bronx," replied Flint, with
a smile which was intended as a mild apology for his weakness. "I used
to be in love with the coasting schooner I owned and commanded, and I
almost cried when I had to sell her."

"I don't think you need to be ashamed of this sentiment, or that
an inanimate structure should call it into being," said the young
commander. "I am sure I have not ceased to love the Bellevite; and in
my eyes she is handsomer than any young lady I ever saw. I have not been
able to transfer my affections to the Bronx as yet, and she will have to
do something very remarkable before I do so. But about the speed of our
ship?"

"I have noticed particularly how easily and gracefully she makes her way
through the water when she is going fifteen knots. Why that is faster
than most of the ocean passenger steamers travel."

"Very true; but like many of these blockade runners and other vessels
which the Confederate government and rich men at the South have
purchased in the United Kingdom, she was doubtless built on the Clyde.
Not a few of them have been constructed for private yachts, and I have
no doubt, from what I have seen, that the Bronx is one of the number.
The Scotian and the Arran belonged to wealthy Britishers; and of course
they were built in the very best manner, and were intended to attain the
very highest rate of speed."

"I shall count on eighteen knots at least on the part of the Bronx when
the situation shall require her to do her best. By the way, Captain
Passford, don't you think that a rather queer name has been given to our
steamer? Bronx! I am willing to confess that I don't know what the word
means, or whether it is fish, flesh or fowl," continued Flint.

"It is not fish, flesh or fowl," replied Christy, laughing. "My father
suggested the name to the Department, and it was adopted. He talked with
me about a name, as he thought I had some interest in her, for the
reason that I had done something in picking her up."

"Done something? I should say that you had done it all," added Flint.

"I did my share. The vessels of the navy have generally been named after
a system, though it has often been varied. Besides the names of states
and cities, the names of rivers have been given to vessels. The Bronx is
the name of a small stream, hardly more than a brook, in West Chester
County, New York. When I was a small boy, my father had a country place
on its banks, and I did my first paddling in the water in the Bronx.
I liked the name, and my father recommended it."

"I don't object to the name, though somehow it makes me think of a
walnut cracked in your teeth when I hear it pronounced," added Flint.
"Now that I know what it is and what it means, I shall take more kindly
to it, though I am afraid we shall get to calling her the Bronxy before
we have done with her, especially if she gets to be a pet, for the name
seems to need another syllable."

"Young men fall in love with girls without regard to their names."

"That's so. A friend of mine in our town in Maine fell in love with a
young lady by the name of Leatherbee; but she was a very pretty girl and
her name was all the objection I had to her," said Flint, chuckling.

"But that was an objection which your friend evidently intended to
remove at no very distant day," suggested Christy.

"Very true; and he did remove it some years ago. What was that noise?"
asked the first lieutenant, suddenly rising from his seat.

Christy heard the sounds at the same moment. He and his companion in the
cabin had been talking about the Scotian and the Arran, and what his
father had said to him about prudence in speaking of his movements came
to his mind. The noise was continued, and he hastened to the door of his
state room, and threw it open. In the room he found Dave hard at work on
the furniture; he had taken out the berth sack, and was brushing out the
inside of the berth. The noise had been made by the shaking of the slats
on which the mattress rested. Davis Talbot, the cabin steward of the
Bronx, had been captured in the vessel when she was run out of Pensacola
Bay some months before. As he was a very intelligent colored man, or
rather mulatto, though they were all the same at the South, the young
commander had selected him for his present service; and he never had
occasion to regret the choice. Dave had passed his time since the Teaser
arrived at New York at Bonnydale, and he had become a great favorite,
not only with Christy, but with all the members of the family.

"What are you about, Dave?" demanded Christy, not a little astonished to
find the steward in his room.

"I am putting the room in order for the captain, sir," replied Dave
with a cheerful smile, such as he always wore in the presence of his
superiors. "I found something in this berth I did not like to see about
a bed in which a gentleman is to sleep, and I have been through it with
poison and a feather; and I will give you the whole southern Confederacy
if you find a single redback in the berth after this."

"I am very glad you have attended to this matter at once, Dave."

"Yes, sir; Captain Folkner never let me attend to it properly, for he
was afraid I would read some of his papers on the desk. He was willing
to sleep six in a bed with redbacks," chuckled Dave.

"Well, I am not, or even two in a bed with such companions. How long
have you been in my room, Dave?" added Christy.

"More than two hours, I think; and I have been mighty busy too."

"Did you hear me when I came into the cabin?"

"No, sir, I did not; but I heard you talking with somebody a while ago."

"What did I say to the other person?"

"I don't know, sir; I could not make out a word, and I didn't stop in my
work to listen. I have been very busy, Captain Passford," answered Dave,
beginning to think he had been doing something that was not altogether
regular.

"Don't you know what we were talking about, Dave?"

"No, sir; I did not make out a single word you said," protested the
steward, really troubled to find that he had done something wrong,
though he had not the least idea what it was. "I did not mean to do
anything out of the way, Captain Passford."

"I have no fault to find this time, Dave."

"I should hope not, sir," added Dave, looking as solemn as a sleepy owl.
"I would jump overboard before I would offend you, Massa Christy."

"You need not jump overboard just yet," replied the captain, with a
pleasant smile, intended to remove the fears of the steward. "But I want
to make a new rule for you, Dave."

"Thank you, sir; if you sit up nights to make rules for me, I will obey
all of them; and I would give you the whole State of Florida before I
would break one of them on purpose, Massa Christy."

"Massa Christy!" exclaimed the captain, laughing.

"Massa Captain Passford!" shouted Dave, hastening to correct his
over-familiarity.

"I don't object to your calling me Christy when we are alone, for I look
upon you as my friend, and I have tried to treat you as a gentleman,
though you are a subordinate. But are you going to be a nigger again,
and call white men 'Massa?' I told you not to use that word."

"I done forget it when I got excited because I was afraid I had offended
you," pleaded the steward.

"Your education is vastly superior to most people of your class, and you
should not belittle yourself. This is my cabin; and I shall sometimes
have occasion to talk confidentially with my officers. Do you understand
what I mean, Dave?"

"Perfectly, Captain Passford: I know what it is to talk confidently and
what it is to talk confidentially, and you do both, sir," replied the
steward.

"But I am sometimes more confidential than confident. Now you must do
all your work in my state room when I am not in the cabin, and this is
the new rule," said Christy, as he went out of the room. "I know that I
can trust you, Dave; but when I tell a secret I want to know to how many
persons I am telling it. You may finish your work now;" and he closed
the door.

Christy could not have explained why he did so if it had been required
of him, but he went directly to the door leading out into the companion
way, and suddenly threw it wide open, drawing the portire aside at the
same time. Not a little to his surprise, for he had not expected it,
he found a man there; and the intruder was down on his knees, as if in
position to place his ear at the keyhole. This time the young commander
was indignant, and without stopping to consider as long as the precepts
of his father required, he seized the man by the collar, and dragged him
into the cabin.

"What are you doing there?" demanded Christy in the heat of his
indignation.

The intruder, who was a rather stout man, began to shake his head with
all his might, and to put the fore finger of his right hand on his mouth
and one of his ears. He was big enough to have given the young commander
a deal of trouble if he had chosen to resist the force used upon him;
but he appeared to be tame and submissive. He did not speak, but he
seemed to be exerting himself to the utmost to make himself understood.
Flint had resumed his seat at the table, facing the door, and in spite
of himself, apparently, he began to laugh.

"That is Pink Mulgrum, Captain Passford," said he, evidently to prevent
his superior from misinterpreting the lightness of his conduct. "As you
are aware, he is deaf and dumb."

  [Illustration: Mulgrum at the captain's door.]

"I see who he is now," replied Christy, who had just identified the man.
"He may be deaf and dumb, but he seems to have a great deal of business
at the door of my cabin."

"I have no doubt he is as deaf as the keel of the ship, and I have not
yet heard him speak a word," added the first lieutenant. "But he is a
stout fellow, very patriotic, and willing to work."

"All that may be, but I have found him once before hanging around that
door to-day."

At this moment Mulgrum took from his pocket a tablet of paper and a
pencil, and wrote upon it, "I am a deaf mute, and I don't know what you
are talking about." Christy read it, and then wrote, "What were you
doing at the door?" He replied that he had been sent by Mr. Lillyworth
to clean the brasses on the door. He was then dismissed.




CHAPTER IV

A DEAF AND DUMB MYSTERY


As he dismissed Mulgrum, Christy tore off the leaf from the tablet on
which both of them had written before he handed it back to the owner.
For a few moments, he said nothing, and had his attention fixed on the
paper in his hand, which he seemed to be studying for some reason of his
own.

"That man writes a very good hand for one in his position," said he,
looking at the first lieutenant.

"I had noticed that before," replied Flint, as the commander handed
him the paper, which he looked over with interest. "I had some talk with
him on his tablet the day he came on board. He strikes me as a very
intelligent and well-educated man."

"Was he born a deaf mute?" asked Christy.

"I did not think to ask him that question; but I judged from the
language he used and his rapid writing that he was well educated. There
is character in his handwriting too; and that is hardly to be expected
from a deaf mute," replied Flint.

"Being a deaf mute, he can not have been shipped as a seaman, or even as
an ordinary steward," suggested the captain.

"Of course not; he was employed as a sort of scullion to be worked
wherever he could make himself useful. Mr. Nawood engaged him on the
recommendation of Mr. Lillyworth," added Flint, with something like a
frown on his brow, as though he had just sounded a new idea.

"Have you asked Mr. Lillyworth anything about him?"

"I have not; for somehow Mr. Lillyworth and I don't seem to be very
affectionate towards each other, though we get along very well together.
But Mulgrum wrote out for me that he was born in Cherryfield, Maine, and
obtained his education as a deaf mute in Hartford. I learned the deaf
and dumb alphabet when I was a schoolmaster, as a pastime, and I had
some practice with it in the house where I boarded."

"Then you can talk in that way with Mulgrum."

"Not a bit of it; he knows nothing at all about the deaf and dumb
alphabet, and could not spell out a single word I gave him."

"That is very odd," added the captain musing.

"So I thought; but he explained it by saying that at the school they
were changing this method of communication for that of actually speaking
and understanding what was said by observing the vocal organs. He had
not remained long enough to master this method; in fact he had done all
his talking with his tablets."

"It is a little strange that he should not have learned either method of
communication."

"I thought so myself, and said as much to him; but he told me that he
had inherited considerable property at the death of his father, and he
was not inclined to learn new tricks," said Flint. "He is intensely
patriotic, and said that he was willing to give himself and all his
property for the salvation of his country. He had endeavored to obtain
a position as captain's clerk, or something of that sort, in the navy;
but failing of this, he had been willing to go to the war as a scullion.
He says he shall fight, whatever his situation, when he has the
opportunity; and that is all I know about him."

Christy looked on the floor, and seemed to be considering the facts he
had just learned. He had twice discovered Mulgrum at the door of his
cabin, though his presence there had been satisfactorily explained; or
at least a reason had been given. This man had been brought on board by
the influence of Mr. Lillyworth, who had been ordered to the Gulf for
duty, and was on board as a substitute for Mr. Flint, who was acting in
Christy's place, as the latter was in that of Mr. Blowitt, who outranked
them all. Flint had not been favorably impressed with the acting second
lieutenant, and he had not hesitated to speak his mind in regard to him
to the captain. Though Christy had been more reserved in speech, he had
the feeling that Mr. Lillyworth must establish a reputation for
patriotism and fidelity to the government before he could trust him
as he did the first lieutenant, though he was determined to manifest
nothing like suspicion in regard to him.

At this stage of the war, that is to say in the earlier years of it,
the government was obliged to accept such men as it could obtain for
officers, for the number in demand greatly exceeded the supply of
regularly educated naval officers. There were a great many applicants
for positions, and candidates were examined in regard to their
professional qualifications rather than their motives for entering the
service. If a man desired to enter the army or the navy, the simple wish
was regarded as a sufficient guaranty of his patriotism, especially in
connection with his oath of allegiance. With the deaf mute's leaf in his
hand Christy was thinking over this matter of the motives of officers.
He was not satisfied in regard to either Lillyworth or Mulgrum, and
besides the regular quota of officers and seamen permanently attached
to the Bronx, there were eighteen seamen and petty officers berthed
forward, who were really passengers, though they were doing duty.

"Where did you say this man Mulgrum was born, Mr. Flint?" asked the
captain, after he had mused for quite a time.

"In Cherryfield, Maine," replied the first lieutenant; and he could not
help feeling that the commander had not been silent so long for nothing.

"You are a Maine man, Flint: were you ever in this town?"

"I have been; I taught school there for six months; and it was the last
place I filled before I went to sea."

"I am glad to hear it, for it will save me from looking any further for
the man I want just now. If this deaf mute was born and brought up in
Cherryfield, he must know something about the place," added Christy as
he touched a bell on his table, to which Dave instantly responded.

"Do you know Mulgrum, Dave?" asked the captain.

"No, sir; never heard of him before," replied the steward.

"You don't know him! The man who has been cleaning the brass work on the
doors?" exclaimed Christy.

"Oh! Pink, we all call him," said the steward.

"His name is Pinkney Mulgrum," Flint explained.

"Yes, sir; I know him, though we never had any long talks together,"
added Dave with a rich smile on his face.

"Go on deck, and tell Mulgrum to come into my cabin," said Christy.

"If I tell him that, he won't hear me," suggested Dave.

"Show him this paper," interposed the first lieutenant, handing him a
card on which he had written the order.

Dave left the cabin to deliver the message, and the captain immediately
instructed Flint to question the man in regard to the localities and
other matters in Cherryfield, suggesting that he should conduct his
examination so as not to excite any suspicion. Pink Mulgrum appeared
promptly, and was placed at the table where both of the officers could
observe his expression. Then Flint began to write on a sheet of paper,
and passed his first question to the man. It was: "Don't you remember
me?" Mulgrum wrote that he did not. Then the inquisitor asked when he
had left Cherryfield to attend the school at Hartford; and the date he
gave placed him there at the very time when Flint had been the master of
the school for four months. On the question of locality, he could place
the church, the schoolhouse and the hotel; and he seemed to have no
further knowledge of the town. When asked where his father lived, he
described a white house next to the church; but Flint knew that this had
been owned and occupied by the minister for many years.

"This man is a humbug," was the next sentence the first lieutenant
wrote, but he passed it to the captain. Christy wrote under it: "Tell
him that we are perfectly satisfied with his replies, and thank him for
his attendance;" which was done at once, and the captain smiled upon him
as though he had conducted himself with distinguished ability.

"Mulgrum has been in Cherryfield; but he could not have remained there
more than a day or two," said Flint, when the door had closed behind the
deaf mute.

The captain made a gesture to impose silence upon his companion.

"Mulgrum is all right in every respect," said he in a loud tone, so
that if the subject of the examination had stopped at the keyhole of the
door, he would not be made any the wiser for what he heard there.

"He knows Cherryfield as well as he knows the deck of the Bronx, and as
you say, Captain Passford, he is all right in every respect," added the
first lieutenant in the same loud tone. "Mulgrum is a well educated man,
captain, and you will have a great deal of writing to do: I suggest that
you bring him into your cabin, and make him your clerk."

"That is a capital idea, Mr. Flint, and I shall consider it," returned
the commander, making sure that the man at the door should hear him,
if Mulgrum lingered there. "I have a number of letters sent over from
England relating to blockade runners that I wish to have copied for the
use of any naval officers with whom I may fall in; and I have not the
time to do it myself."

"Mulgrum writes a very handsome hand, and no one could do the work any
better than he."

Christy thought enough had been said to satisfy the curiosity of Mulgrum
if he was still active in seeking information, and both of the officers
were silent. The captain had enough to think of to last him a long
while. The result of the inquiry into the auditory and vocal powers of
the scullion, as Flint called him, had convinced him that the deaf mute
was a fraud. He had no doubt that he could both speak and hear as well
as the rest of the ship's company. But the puzzling question was in
relation to the reason why he pretended to be deaf and dumb. If he was
desirous of serving his country in the navy, and especially in the
Bronx, it was not necessary to pretend to be deaf and dumb in order to
obtain a fighting berth on board of her. It looked like a first class
mystery to the young commander, but he was satisfied that the presence
of Mulgrum meant mischief. He could not determine at once what it was
best to do to solve the mystery; but he decided that the most extreme
watchfulness was required of him and his first lieutenant. This was all
he could do, and he touched his bell again.

"Dave," said he when the cabin steward presented himself before him, "go
on deck and ask Mr. Lillyworth to report to me the log and the weather."

"The log and the weather, sir," replied Dave, as he hastened out of the
cabin.

Christy watched him closely as he went out at the door, and he was
satisfied that Mulgrum was not in the passage, if he had stopped there
at all. His present purpose was to disarm all the suspicions of the
subject of the mystery, but he would have been glad to know whether or
not the man had lingered at the door to hear what was said in regard to
him. He was not anxious in regard to the weather, or even the log, and
he sent Dave on his errand in order to make sure that Mulgrum was not
still doing duty as a listener.

"Wind south south west, log last time fifteen knots and a half,"
reported Dave, as he came in after knocking at the door.

"I can not imagine why that man pretended to be deaf and dumb in order
to get a position on board of the Bronx. He is plainly a fraud," said
the captain when Dave had gone back to his work in the state room.

"I don't believe he pretended to be a deaf mute in order to get a place
on board, for that would ordinarily be enough to prevent him from
getting it. I should put it that he had obtained his place in spite of
being deaf and dumb. But the mystery exists just the same."

The captain went on deck, and the first lieutenant to the ward room.




CHAPTER V

A CONFIDENTIAL STEWARD


The wind still came from the southward, and it was very light. The sea
was comparatively smooth, and the Bronx continued on her course. At the
last bi-hourly heaving of the log, she was making sixteen knots an hour.
The captain went into the engine room, where he found Mr. Gawl, one of
the chief's two assistants, on duty. This officer informed him that no
effort had been made to increase the speed of the steamer, and that she
was under no strain whatever. The engine had been thoroughly overhauled,
as well as every other part of the vessel, and every improvement that
talent and experience suggested had been made. It now appeared that the
engine had been greatly benefited by whatever changes had been made.
These improvements had been explained to the commander by Mr. Sampson
the day before; but Christy had not given much attention to the matter,
for he preferred to let the speed of the vessel speak for itself; and
this was what it appeared to be doing at the present time.

Christy walked the deck for some time, observing everything that
presented itself, and taking especial notice of the working of the
vessel. Though he made no claims to any superior skill, he was really an
expert, and the many days and months he had passed in the companionship
of Paul Vapoor in studying the movements of engines and hulls had made
him wiser and more skilful than it had even been suspected that he was.
He was fully competent for the position he was temporarily filling; but
he had made himself so by years of study and practice.

Christy had not yet obtained all the experience he required as a naval
officer, and he was fully aware that this was what he needed to enable
him to discharge his duty in the best manner. He was in command of a
small steamer, a position of responsibility which he had not coveted in
this early stage of his career, though it was only for a week or less,
as the present speed of the Bronx indicated. He had ambition enough to
hope that he should be able to distinguish himself in this brief period,
for it might be years before he again obtained such an opportunity. His
youth was against him, and he was aware that he had been selected to
take the steamer to the Gulf because there was a scarcity of officers of
the proper grade, and his rank gave him the position.

The motion of the Bronx exactly suited him, and he judged that in a
heavy sea she would behave very well. He had made one voyage in her from
the Gulf to New York, and the steamer had done very well, though she had
been greatly improved at the navy yard. Certainly her motion was better,
and the connection between the engine and the inert material of which
the steamer was constructed, seemed to be made without any straining
or jerking. There was very little shaking and trembling as the powerful
machinery drove her ahead over the quiet sea. There had been no very
severe weather during his first cruise in the Bronx, and she had not
been tested in a storm under his management, though she had doubtless
encountered severe gales in crossing the Atlantic in a breezy season of
the year.

While Christy was planking the deck, four bells were struck on the
ship's great bell on the top-gallant forecastle. It was the beginning
of the second dog watch, or six o'clock in the afternoon, and the watch
which had been on duty since four o'clock was relieved. Mr. Flint
ascended the bridge, and took the place of Mr. Lillyworth, the second
lieutenant. Under this bridge was the pilot-house, and in spite of her
small size, the steamer was steered by steam. The ship had been at sea
but a few hours, and the crew were not inclined to leave the deck. The
number of men on board was nearly doubled by the addition of those sent
down to fill vacancies in other vessels on the blockade. Christy went on
the bridge soon after, more to take a survey inboard than for any other
purpose.

Mr. Lillyworth had gone aft, but when he met Mulgrum coming up from the
galley, he stopped and looked around him. With the exception of himself
nearly the whole ship's company were forward. The commander watched him
with interest when he stopped in the vicinity of the deaf mute, who
also halted in the presence of the second lieutenant. Then they walked
together towards the companion way, and disappeared behind the mainmast.
Christy had not before noticed any intercourse between the lieutenant
and the scullion, though he thought it a little odd that the officer
should set the man at work cleaning the brasses about the door of the
captain's cabin, a matter that belonged to the steward's department. He
had learned from Flint that Mulgrum had been recommended to the chief
steward by Lillyworth, so that it was evident enough that they had been
acquainted before either of them came on board. But he could not see
them behind the mast, and he desired very much to know what they were
doing.

Flint had taken his supper before he went on duty on the bridge, and the
table was waiting for the other ward room officers who had just been
relieved. It was time for Lillyworth to go to the meal, but he did not
go, and he seemed to be otherwise engaged. After a while, Christy looked
at his watch, and found that a quarter of an hour had elapsed since the
second lieutenant had left the bridge, and he had spent nearly all this
time abaft the mainmast with the scullion. The commander had become
absolutely absorbed in his efforts to fathom the deaf and dumb mystery,
and fortunately there was nothing else to occupy his attention, for
Flint had drilled the crew, including the men for other vessels, and
had billeted and stationed them during the several days he had been on
board. Everything was working as though the Bronx had been at sea a
month instead of less than half a day.

Christy was exceedingly anxious to ascertain what, if anything, was
passing between Lillyworth and Mulgrum; but he could see no way to
obtain any information on the subject. He had no doubt he was watched as
closely as he was watching the second lieutenant. If he went aft, that
would at once end the conference, if one was in progress. He could
not call upon a seaman to report on such a delicate question without
betraying himself, and he had not yet learned whom to trust in such a
matter, and it was hardly proper to call upon a foremast hand to watch
one of his officers.

The only person on board besides the first lieutenant in whom he felt
that he could repose entire confidence was Dave. He knew him thoroughly,
and his color was almost enough to guarantee his loyalty to the country
and his officers, and especially to himself, for the steward possessed a
rather extravagant admiration for the one who had "brought him out of
bondage," as he expressed it, and had treated him like a gentleman from
first to last. He could trust Dave even on the most delicate mission;
but Dave was attending to the table in the ward room, and he did not
care to call him from his duty.

At the end of another five minutes, Christy saw Mulgrum come from abaft
the mainmast, and descend the ladder to the galley. He saw no more of
Lillyworth, and he concluded that, keeping himself in the shadow of
the mast, he had gone below. He remained on the bridge a while longer
considering what he should do. He said nothing to Flint, for he did
not like to take up the attention of any officer on duty. The commander
thought that Dave could render him the assistance he required better
than any other person on board, for being only a steward and a colored
man at that, less notice would be taken of him than of one in a higher
position. He was about to descend from the bridge when Flint spoke to
him in regard to the weather, though he could have guessed to a point
what the captain was thinking about, perhaps because the same subject
occupied his own thoughts.

"I think we shall have a change of weather before morning, Captain
Passford. The wind is drawing a little more to the southward, and we are
likely to have wind and rain," said the first lieutenant.

"Wind and rain will not trouble us, and I am more afraid that we shall
be bothered with fog on this cruise," added Christy as he descended the
ladder to the main deck.

He walked about the deck for a few minutes, observing the various
occupations of the men, who were generally engaged in amusing
themselves, or in "reeling off sea yarns." Then he went below. At the
foot of the stairs in the companion way, the door of the ward room was
open, and he saw that Lillyworth was seated at the table. He sat at the
foot of it, the head being the place of the first lieutenant, and the
captain could see only his back. He was slightly bald at the apex of
his head, for he was an older man than either the captain or the first
lieutenant, but inferior to them in rank, though all of them were
masters, and seniority depended upon the date of the commissions;
and even a single day settled the degree in these days of multiplied
appointments. Christy went into his cabin, where the table was set for
his own supper.

The commander looked at his barometer, and his reading of it assured him
that Flint was correct in regard to his prognostics of the weather. But
the young officer had faced the winter gales of the Atlantic, and the
approach of any ordinary storm did not disturb him in the least degree.
On the contrary he rather liked a lively sea, for it was less monotonous
than a calm. He did not brood over a storm, therefore, but continued
to consider the subject which had so deeply interested him since he
discovered Mulgrum on his knees at the door, with a rag and a saucer of
rottenstone in his hands. He had a curiosity to examine the brass knob
of his door at that moment, and it did not appear to have been very
severely rubbed.

"Quarter of seven, sir," said Dave, presenting himself at the door while
Christy was still musing over the incidents already detailed.

"All right, Dave; I will have my supper now," replied Christy,
indifferently, for though he was generally blessed with a good appetite
the mystery was too absorbing to permit the necessary duty of eating to
drive it out of his mind.

Dave retired, and soon brought in a tray from the galley, the dishes
from which he arranged on the table. It was an excellent supper, though
he had not given any especial orders in regard to its preparation. He
seated himself and began to eat in a rather mechanical manner, and no
one who saw him would have mistaken him for an epicure. Dave stationed
himself in front of the commander, so that he was between the table and
the door. He watched Christy, keeping his eyes fixed on him without
intermitting his gaze for a single instant. Once in a while he tendered
a dish to him at the table, but there was but one object in existence
for Christy at that moment.

"Dave," said the captain, after he had disposed of a portion of his
supper.

"Here, sir, on duty," replied the steward.

"Open the door behind you, quick!"

Dave obeyed instantly, and threw the door back so that it was wide open,
though he seemed to be amazed at the strangeness of the order.

"All right, Dave; close it," added Christy, when he saw there was no
one in the passage; and he concluded that Mulgrum was not likely to be
practising his vocation when there was no one in the cabin but himself
and the steward.

Dave obeyed the order like a machine, and then renewed his gaze at the
commander.

"Are you a Freemason, Dave?" asked Christy.

"No, sir," replied the steward with a magnificent smile.

"A Knight of Pythias, of Pythagoras, or anything of that sort?"

"No, sir; nothing of the sort."

"Then you can't keep a secret?"

"Yes, sir, I can. If I have a secret to keep, I will give the whole
Alabama River to any one that can get it out of me."

Christy felt sure of his man without this protestation.




CHAPTER VI

A MISSION UP THE FOREMAST


Christy spent some time in delivering a lecture on naval etiquette to
his single auditor. Probably he was not the highest authority on the
subject of his discourse; but he was sufficiently learned to meet the
requirements of the present occasion.

"You say you can keep a secret, Dave?" continued the commander.

"I don't take any secrets to keep from everybody, Captain Passford; and
I don't much like to carry them about with me," replied the steward,
looking a little more grave than usual, though he still wore a cheerful
smile.

"Then you don't wish me to confide a secret to you?"

"I don't say that, Captain Passford. I don't want any man's secrets,
and I don't run after them, except for the good of the service. I was a
slave once, but I know what I am working for now. If you have a secret I
ought to know, Captain Passford, I will take it in and bury it away down
at the bottom of my bosom; and I will give the whole state of Louisiana
to any one that will dig it out of me."

"That's enough, Dave; and I am willing to trust you without any oath on
the Bible, and without even a Quaker's affirmation. I believe you will
be prudent, discreet, and silent for my sake."

"Certainly I will be all that, Captain Passford, for I think you are a
bigger man than Jeff Davis," protested Dave.

"That is because you do not know the President of the Confederate
States, and you do know me; but Mr. Davis is a man of transcendent
ability, and I am only sorry that he is engaged in a bad cause, though
he believes with all his heart and soul that it is a good cause."

"He never treated me like a gentleman, as you have, sir."

"And he never treated you unkindly, I am very sure."

"He never treated me any way, for I never saw him; and I would not walk
a hundred miles barefooted to see him, either. I am no gentleman or
anything of that sort, Massa-- Captain Passford, but if I ever go back
on you by the breadth of a hair, then the Alabama River will run up
hill."

"I am satisfied with you, Dave; and here is my hand," added Christy,
extending it to the steward, who shook it warmly, displaying a good deal
of emotion as he did so. "Now, Dave, you know Mulgrum, or Pink, as you
call him?"

"Well, sir, I know him as I do the rest of the people on board; but we
are not sworn friends yet," replied Dave, rather puzzled to know what
duty was required of him in connection with the scullion.

"You know him; that is enough. What do you think of him?"

"I haven't had any long talks with him, sir, and I don't know what to
think of him."

"You know that he is dumb?"

"I expect he is, sir; but he never said anything to me about it,"
replied Dave. "He never told me he couldn't speak, and I never heard
him speak to any one on board."

"Did you ever speak to him?"

"Yes, sir; I spoke to him when he first came on board; but he didn't
answer me, or take any notice of me when I spoke to him, and I got tired
of it."

"Open that door quickly, Dave," said the captain suddenly.

The steward promptly obeyed the order, and Christy saw that there was
no one in the passage. He told his companion to close the door, and Dave
was puzzled to know what this movement could mean.

"I beg your pardon, Captain Passford, and I have no right to ask any
question; but I should like to know why you make me open that door two
or three times for nothing," said Dave, in the humblest of tones.

"I told you to open it so that I could see if there was anybody at the
door. This is my secret, Dave. I have twice found Mulgrum at that door
while I was talking to the first lieutenant. He pretended to be cleaning
the brass work."

"What was he there for? When a man is as deaf as the foremast of the
ship what would he be doing at the door?"

"He was down on his knees, and his ear was not a great way from the
keyhole of the door."

"But he could not hear anything."

"I don't know: that is what I want to find out. The mission I have for
you, Dave, is to watch Mulgrum. In a word, I have my doubts in regard to
his deafness and his dumbness."

"You don't believe he is deaf and dumb, Captain Passford!" exclaimed the
steward, opening his eyes very wide, and looking as though an earthquake
had just shaken him up.

"I don't say that, my man. I am in doubt. He may be a deaf mute, as he
represents himself to be. I wish you to ascertain whether or not he can
speak and hear. You are a shrewd fellow, Dave, I discovered some time
ago; in fact the first time I ever saw you. You may do this job in any
manner you please; but remember that your mission is my secret, and you
must not betray it to Mulgrum, or to any other person."

"Be sure I won't do that, Captain Passford."

"If you obtain any satisfactory information, convey it to me
immediately. You must be very careful not to let any one suspect that
you are watching him, and least of all to let Mulgrum know it. Do you
understand me perfectly, Dave?"

"Yes, sir; perfectly. Nobody takes any notice of me but you, and it
won't be a hard job. I think I can manage it without any trouble. I am
nothing but a nigger, and of no account."

"I have chosen you for this mission because you can do it better than
any other person, Dave. Don't call yourself a nigger; I don't like the
word, and you are ninety degrees in the shade above the lower class of
negroes in the South."

"Thank you, sir," replied the steward with an expansive smile.

"There is one thing I wish you to understand particularly, Dave. I have
not set you to watch any officer of the ship," said Christy
impressively.

"No, sir; I reckon Pink Mulgrum is not an officer any more than I am."

"But you may discover, if you find that Mulgrum can speak and hear, that
he is talking to an officer," added the captain in a low tone.

"What officer, Captain Passford?" asked the steward, opening his eyes
to their utmost capacity, and looking as bewildered as an owl in the
gaslight.

"I repeat that I do not set you to watch an officer; and I leave it to
you to ascertain with whom Mulgrum has any talk, if with any one. Now I
warn you that, if you accomplish anything in this mission, you will do
it at night and not in the daytime. That is all that need be said at the
present time, Dave, and you will attend to your duty as usual. If you
lose much sleep, you may make it up in the forenoon watch."

"I don't care for the sleep, Captain Passford, and I can keep awake all
night."

"One thing more, Dave; between eight bells and eight bells to-night,
during the first watch, you may get at something, but you must keep
out of sight as much as you can," added Christy, as he rose from his
armchair, and went into his state room.

Dave busied himself in clearing the table, but he was in a very
thoughtful mood all the time. Loading up his tray with dishes, he
carried them through the steerage to the galley, where he found Mulgrum
engaged in washing those from the ward room, which he had brought out
some time before. The steward looked at the deaf mute with more interest
than he had regarded him before. He was a supernumerary on board, and
any one who had anything to do called Pink to do it. Another waiter was
greatly needed, and Mr. Nawood, the chief steward, had engaged one, but
he had failed to come on board before the steamer sailed. Pink had been
pressed into service for the steerage; but he was of little use, and the
work seemed very distasteful, if not disgusting, to him. He carried in
the food, but that was about all he was good for.

Dave watched him for a few minutes as he washed and wiped the dishes,
and saw that he was very awkward at it; it was plain to him that he was
not an experienced hand at the business. But he was doing the steward's
work, and Dave took hold and helped him. Pink was as solemn as an owl,
and did his work in a very mechanical manner, and without the slightest
interest in it. The cabin steward had a mission, and he was profoundly
interested in its execution.

By the side of the galley, or range, was a sink at which they were at
work. Dave thought he might as well begin then and there to test the
hearing powers of his companion. Picking up one of the large blowers
of the range, he placed himself so that Pink could not see what he was
about, and then banged the sheet iron against the cast iron of the great
stove. He kept his eye fixed all the time on the scullion. The noise was
enough for the big midship gun on deck, or even for a small earthquake.
Pink was evidently startled by the prodigious sound, and turned towards
the steward, who was satisfied that he had heard it; but the fellow was
cunning, and realizing that he had committed himself, he picked up one
of his feet, and began to rub it as though he had been hit by the
falling blower. At the same time, he pretended to be very angry, and
demonstrated very earnestly against his companion.

Dave felt that he had made a point, and he did not carry his
investigation of the auditory capacity of the scullion any farther that
night. He finished his work below, and then went on deck. He lounged
about in a very careless manner till eight bells were struck. Mr. Flint
on the bridge was relieved by Mr. Lillyworth, and the port watch came on
duty for the next four hours, or until midnight. This was the time the
captain had indicated to Dave as a favorable one for the discharge of
his special duty. Taking advantage of the absence of any person from the
vicinity of the foremast, he adroitly curled himself up in the folds of
the foresail, which was brailed up to the mast. He had his head in such
a position that he could see without being seen by any casual passer-by.

He waited in this position over an hour, and during that time Pink went
back and forth several times, and seemed to be looking up at the bridge,
which was just forward of the foremast. On the top-gallant forecastle
were two men on the lookout; in the waist was a quartermaster, who was
doing the duty that belonged to the third lieutenant, if the scarcity of
officers had permitted the Bronx to have one. The body of the port watch
were spinning yarns on the forecastle, and none of them were very near
the foremast. After a while, as Pink was approaching the forecastle,
Dave saw the second lieutenant gesticulating to him very earnestly to
come on the bridge. The supernumerary ascended the ladder, and the
officer set him at work to lace on the sailcloth to the railing of the
bridge, to shelter those on duty there from the force of the sea blast.

Dave listened with all his ears for any sound from the bridge; but he
soon realized that if there was any, he was too far off to hear it. With
the aid of the lashings of the foresail, he succeeded in climbing up on
the mast to a point on a level with the bridge, and at the same time to
make the mast conceal him from the eyes of Mr. Lillyworth and the
scullion. The latter pretended to be at work, and occasionally the
second lieutenant "jawed" at him for his clumsiness in lacing the
sailcloth. Between these growls, they spoke together in a low tone, but
Dave was near enough to hear what they said. Though he had never heard
the voice of Pink Mulgrum before, he knew that of the second lieutenant,
and he was in no danger of confounding the two. Pink used excellent
language, as the steward was capable of judging, and it was plain enough
that he was not what he had appeared to be.

  [Illustration: Lillyworth and Mulgrum on the bridge.]




CHAPTER VII

AN INTERVIEW ON THE BRIDGE


Although Mr. Lillyworth knew very well that Pink Mulgrum was deaf and
dumb, he "jawed" at him as though his hearing was as perfect as his own,
doubtless forgetting for the moment his infirmity.

"Draw up the bight, and lace it tighter," exclaimed the second
lieutenant, intermixing an expletive at each end of the sentence. "Oh,
you can't hear me!" he shouted, as though the fact that the scullion
could not hear him had suddenly come to his mind. "Well, it is a nice
thing to talk to a deaf man!"

Dave could see that Mulgrum also seemed to forget that his ears were
closed to all sounds, for he redoubled his efforts to haul the screen
into its place.

"I could not hear anything that was of any consequence," the steward
heard the deaf mute say in a lower tone than his companion used.

"Couldn't you hear anything?" asked Mr. Lillyworth, making a spring
at the canvas as though he was disgusted with the operations of his
companion on the bridge.

"Only what I have just told you," replied Mulgrum.

"But you were at the door when the captain and the first lieutenant were
talking together in the cabin," continued the officer in a low tone.

"But they were talking about me, as I told you before," answered the
scullion, rather impatiently, as though he too had a mind of his own.

"Wasn't anything said about the operations of the future?" demanded Mr.
Lillyworth.

"Not a word; but you know as well as I do that the captain has sealed
orders which he will not see before to-morrow. I heard him tell his
father that he was to open the envelope in latitude 38," said the
supernumerary.

"You must contrive some way to hear the captain when he reads his
orders," continued the second lieutenant. "He will be likely to have
Mr. Flint with him when he opens the envelope."

"It will be difficult," replied Mulgrum, and Dave could imagine that he
saw him shake his head. "The captain has found me cleaning the brasses
on his door twice, and it will hardly do to be found at the door again."

"Isn't there any place in his cabin where you can conceal yourself?"
inquired Mr. Lillyworth.

"I don't know of any place, unless it is his state room; and the cabin
steward has been at work there almost all the time since we got under
way. Dave seems to be a sort of confidant of the captain," suggested
Mulgrum; and it looked as though the deaf mute had not held his tongue
and kept his ears open for nothing; but the steward could not understand
how he had got this idea into his head, for he had received his
instructions while the commander was at supper, and he was sure, as
he had thrown the door open several times, that the scullion was not
on the other side of it.

"A nigger for his confidant!" exclaimed the second lieutenant, as he
interpolated a little jaw for the benefit of the seamen and petty
officers within earshot of him. "What can we expect when a mere boy
is put in command of a steamer like this one?"

"I think you need not complain, Pawcett, for you are on board of this
vessel, and so am I, because she is under the command of a boy. But he
is a tremendous smart boy, and he is older than many men of double his
age," added Mulgrum.

Dave realized that the supernumerary was well informed in regard to
current history in connection with naval matters, and he was willing to
believe that he was quite as shrewd as the officer at his side.

"The boy is well enough, though he is abominably overrated, as you will
see before I have done with him," said Mr. Lillyworth contemptuously.
"It is galling for one who has seen some service to touch his cap to
this boy and call him captain."

"I hope you are not forgetting yourself, Pawcett--"

"Don't mention my name on board of this vessel, Hungerford," interposed
the officer.

"And you will not mention mine," added the scullion promptly. "We are
both careless in this matter, and we must do better. I think I ought to
caution you not to neglect any outside tokens of respect to the captain.
You can have your own opinions, but I think you do not treat him with
sufficient deference."

"Perhaps I don't, for it is not an easy thing to do," replied the second
lieutenant. "But I think the captain has no cause to complain of me.
We must find out something about these orders, and you must be on the
lookout for your chances at meridian to-morrow. If you can stow yourself
away under the captain's berth in his state room, you may be able to
hear him read them to the first lieutenant, as he will be sure to do."

"I don't believe in doing that," replied Mulgrum. "If I am discovered,
no explanation could be made as to why I was concealed there."

"But we must take some risks," persisted Mr. Lillyworth. "After what you
told me in the first of our talk, it may not be necessary to conceal
yourself. I shall say something to the captain on the subject at which
you hinted as soon as I get a chance. You may be in a situation to hear
all that is said without danger."

Dave wondered what could be meant by this remark, for he had not heard
the conversation between the captain and the first lieutenant which was
intended as a "blind" to the listener, known to be at the door.

"I am willing to take any risk that will not ruin our enterprise,"
Mulgrum responded to the remark of his companion.

"At noon to-morrow I shall come on deck in charge, and the first
lieutenant will be relieved, so that he will be at liberty to visit the
captain in his cabin. That will be your time, and you must improve it."

"But I shall meet you again to-morrow, and I will look about me, and see
what can be done," said Mulgrum, as he made a new demonstration at the
canvas screen.

"I will keep my eyes open, and you must do the same. How is it with our
men forward?" asked the officer.

"I have had no chance to speak with any of them, for they are all the
time in the midst of the rest of the seamen," replied the deaf mute.
"But I have no doubt they are all right."

"But you must have some way to communicate with them, or they might as
well be on shore. As there are six of them, I should say you might get a
chance to speak to one of them whenever you desire."

"I have had nothing to say to them so far, and I have not considered the
matter of communicating with them."

"It is time to know how you can do so."

"I can manage it in some way when the time comes," replied Mulgrum
confidently. "I am sure the captain and the first lieutenant have no
suspicion that I am not what I seem to be. The executive officer put me
through a full examination, especially in regard to Cherryfield, where I
told him I used to live. I came off with flying colors, and I am certain
that I am all right now."

Dave knew nothing about the examination to which Mr. Flint had subjected
the deaf mute. It is evident that Mulgrum took an entirely different
view of the result of the test from that taken by the examiner and the
captain; but both of the latter had taken extreme pains to conceal their
opinion from the subject of the test.

"I think we had better not say anything more to-night, and you have been
on the bridge long enough," said Mr. Lillyworth, walking to the windward
end of the bridge, and peering out into the gloom of the night.

He had hardly looked in the direction of the deaf mute while he was on
the bridge, but had busied himself with the lashing of the screen, and
done everything he could to make it appear that he was not talking to
his companion. Mulgrum, overhauling the screen as he proceeded, made his
way to the steps by the side of the foremast. But he did not go down, as
he had evidently intended to do, and waited till the second lieutenant
came over to the lee side of the vessel.

"Perhaps the man at the wheel has been listening to our conversation,"
said the deaf mute, plainly alarmed at the situation. "I did not think
of him."

"I did," replied Mr. Lillyworth; "but it is all right, and the man at
the wheel is Spoors, one of our number."

"All right," added Mulgrum, and he descended the steps.

Dave kept his place in the folds of the foresail, and hardly breathed
as the scullion passed him. With the greatest caution, and after he had
satisfied himself that no one was near enough to see him, he descended
to the deck. He wandered about for a while, and saw that the
supernumerary went to the galley, where, in the scarcity of
accommodations for the extra persons on board, he was obliged to sleep
on the floor. He was not likely to extend his operations any farther
that night, and Dave went to the companion way, descended the steps,
and knocked at the door of the captain's cabin.

"Come in," called the occupant, who had been writing at his desk in the
state room, though the door was open.

Dave presented himself before the commander, who was very glad to see
him. Christy wiped the perspiration from his forehead, for he had
evidently been working very hard all the evening. Four bells had just
struck, indicating that it was ten o'clock in the evening. Flint's
prediction in regard to the weather seemed to be in the way of
fulfilment, for the Bronx had been leaping mildly on a head sea for the
last hour. But everything was going well, and the motion of the vessel
was as satisfactory to the commander in rough water as it had been in a
smooth sea.

"I am glad to see you, Dave," said Christy, as the steward presented
himself at the door of the state room. "I suppose from your coming
to-night that you have something to tell me."

"Yes, sir; I have; and I will give you the whole Gulf of Mexico if it
isn't a big thing," replied Dave with his most expansive smile. "You
done get into a hornet's nest, Captain Passford."

"Not so bad as that, I hope," replied Christy, laughing.

"Bad enough, sir, at any rate," added Dave. "Pink Mulgrum has been
talking and listening to the second lieutenant all the evening."

"Then he is not a deaf mute, I take it."

"Not a bit of it; he can talk faster than I can, and he knows all about
his grammar and dictionary. You have just eight traitors on board of the
Bronx, Captain Passford," said Dave very impressively.

"Only eight?"

"That's all I know about; and I think that is enough for one cruise in a
Yankee ship."

"Eight will do very well, Dave; but who are they?" asked the captain
with interest.

"I know just three of them. One is the second lieutenant; Pink Mulgrum
is another, and Spoors, one of the quartermasters, is the third. They
didn't mention any more of them."

"All right, Dave; now sit down on that stool, and tell me the whole
story," said Christy, pointing to the seat.

The steward, believing that he had done a "big thing" that evening, did
not hesitate to seat himself in the presence of the commander, and
proceeded at once to relate all that he had done, and all that he had
seen and heard on the bridge. When Dave had finished his story, and
answered the questions put to him, the commander was willing to believe
that he had done a big thing; though he said nothing beyond a few words
of general commendation to the steward. Then he dismissed him, and,
locking his desk, he went on deck. After taking an observation of the
weather he mounted the bridge.




CHAPTER VIII

IMPORTANT INFORMATION, IF TRUE


"Good evening, Mr. Lillyworth," said Captain Passford, when he reached
the bridge.

"Good evening, Captain Passford," replied the second lieutenant, as he
touched his cap to his superior, galling as the act was, according to
his own statement.

"It looks as though we should have some wind," added the captain.

"Yes, sir; and we shall have a nasty time of it across the Gulf Stream."

"If there is any decided change in the weather during your watch, you
will oblige me by having me called," added the captain; "I think I am
tired enough to turn in, for I have been very busy all the evening,
copying letters and papers. I think I need a clerk almost as much as
the captain of a frigate."

"I think you ought to have one, sir," added Mr. Lillyworth, manifesting
a deep interest in this matter.

"As the matter now stands I have to use a good deal of my time in
copying documents. By the way, if we fall in with any United States
man-of-war, I wish to communicate with her."

"Of course I shall report to you, sir, if one comes in sight during my
watch," replied the second lieutenant, with a greater manifestation of
zeal than he had before displayed in his relations with his commander,
evidently profiting by the suggestion made to him by Pink Mulgrum.

"But I hope we shall not fall in with one before day after tomorrow, for
I have not copied all the letters I desire to use if such an occasion
offers," said Captain Passford, who was really playing out a baited hook
for the benefit of the second lieutenant, in regard to whose intentions
he had no doubt since the revelations of the steward.

"By the way, Captain Passford, what you say in regard to the amount of
writing imposed upon you reminds me that there is a man on board who
might afford you some relief from this drudgery. Possibly you may have
noticed this man, though he is doing duty as a mere scullion."

"Do you mean the man I have seen cleaning brass work about the cabin?"
asked Christy, glad to have the other take hold of the baited hook.

"That is the one; he is deaf and dumb, but he has received a good
education, and writes a good hand, and is rapid about it," added the
second lieutenant, with some eagerness in his manner, though he tried
to conceal it.

"But my writing is of a confidential nature," replied the captain.

"I have known this man, whose name is Pink Mulgrum, for some time. He is
deaf and dumb, and you must have noticed him."

"Oh, yes; I have seen him, and he had an interview with Mr. Flint in my
presence. I observed that he wrote a good hand, and wrote very rapidly."

"I am very confident that you can trust him with your papers, Captain
Passford. He could not go into the service as a soldier or a sailor
on account of his infirmity; but he desired to do something for his
country. He was determined to go to the war, as he called it, in any
capacity, even if it was as a scullion. He wrote me a letter to this
effect, and Mr. Nawood consented to take him as a man of all work.
If he ever gets into an action, you will find that he is a fighting
character."

"That is the kind of men we want, and at the present time, when we are
hardly in a fighting latitude, perhaps I can use him as a copyist, if he
will agree to make no use whatever of any information he may obtain in
that capacity. I will speak to Mr. Nawood about the matter."

"Thank you, Captain Passford. Mulgrum is a very worthy man, patriotic in
every fibre of his frame, and in every drop of his blood. I should be
glad to obtain some permanent occupation for him in the service of his
country, for nothing else will suit him in the present exciting times.
Perhaps when you have tested his qualifications, this will make an
opening for him."

"I will consider the subject tomorrow," said Christy, as he descended
from the bridge.

The commander was satisfied that the portion of the conversation which
had taken place between the aspirant for the position of captain's clerk
and the second lieutenant and which had been finished before the steward
had reached his perch on the foremast, related to this matter. Mulgrum
had heard the conversation between the first lieutenant and himself,
which was intended to blind the listener, and he had reported it to his
confederate. It was only another confirmation, if any were needed, in
regard to the character of the conspirators.

Christy had no doubt in regard to the disloyalty of these two men; but
nothing in respect to their ultimate intentions had yet been revealed.
They had brought six seamen on board with them, and they appeared to
have influence enough in some quarter to have had these men drafted
into the Bronx. Eight men, even if two of them were officers, was an
insignificant force, though he was willing to believe that they intended
to obtain possession of the vessel in some manner. The captain returned
to his cabin, and resumed his work in the state room.

Though Christy had spent several hours at his desk, he had really
produced but a single letter, and had not yet finished it. When he heard
eight bells strike, he left his state room, and seated himself at the
table in the middle of his cabin. The door was open into the companion
way. Mr. Flint presently appeared, and went on deck to relieve the
second lieutenant, who came below a few minutes later, though the
captain did not allow himself to be seen by him. Then he closed the
cabin door, and turned in, for he began to realize that he needed some
rest. He went to sleep at once, and he did not wake till four bells
struck in the morning. The Bronx was pitching heavily, though she still
maintained her reputation as an easy-going ship in spite of the head
sea. He dressed himself, and seated himself at his desk at once,
devoting himself to the letter upon which he had been engaged the
evening before. The second lieutenant was on duty at this time, and the
first was doubtless asleep in his berth, but he had been below six hours
during the night, and, calling Dave with his bell, he sent him for Mr.
Flint, who presented himself a few minutes later.

"Good morning, Captain Passford; you have turned out early, sir," said
the first lieutenant.

"Not very early, and I am sorry to wake you so soon. I did not turn in
till after you had gone on deck to take the midwatch. I have been very
busy since we parted, and I need your advice and assistance," replied
the commander. "I have got at something."

"Indeed! I am glad to hear it," added Mr. Flint.

Without the loss of any time, the captain called Dave, who was at work
in the ward room, and told him to see that no one came near the door of
his cabin. The steward understood him perfectly, and Christy resumed his
place at the table with the executive officer, and proceeded to detail
to him as briefly as he could all the information he had obtained
through Dave, and the manner of obtaining it. It required some time
to do this, and the first lieutenant was intensely interested in the
narrative.

"I am not greatly surprised so far as Lillyworth is concerned, for there
has been something about him that I could not fathom since both of us
came on board," said Mr. Flint.

"Of course these men are on board for a purpose, though I acknowledge
that I cannot fathom this purpose, unless it be treason in a general
sense; but I am inclined to believe that they have some specific
object," added the captain. "Of course you will be willing to believe
that both of these men are sailing under false colors."

"Undoubtedly. It has occurred to me that the second lieutenant invented
the name that represents him on the ship's books. Lillyworth is a little
strained; if he had called himself Smith or Brown, it would have been
less suspicious."

"In the conversation to which Dave listened on the bridge, both of them
blundered, and let out their real names, though each of them reproved
the other for doing so. The second lieutenant's real name is Pawcett,
and that of the deaf mute is Hungerford."

"The last is decidedly a southern name, and the other may be for aught
I know. Hungerford, Hungerford," said Mr. Flint, repeating the name
several times. "It means something to me, but I can't make it out yet."

The first lieutenant cudgelled his brains for a minute or two as though
he was trying to connect the name with some event in the past. The
captain waited for him to sound his memory; but it was done in vain;
Flint could not place him. He was confident, however, that the
connection would be made in his mind at some other moment.

"The interesting question to us just now is to determine why these men,
eight in number, are on board of the Bronx at all, and why they are on
board at the present time," said the captain. "I happen to know that
Lillyworth was offered a better position than the one he now fills
temporarily; but my father says he insisted on going in the Bronx."

"Certainly he is not here on a fool's errand. He has business on board
of this particular steamer," replied Flint, speaking out of his musing
mind. "Ah! now I have it!" he suddenly exclaimed. "Hungerford was the
executive officer of the Killbright, or the Yazoo, as they called her
afterwards. I had a very slight inkling that I had seen the face of the
deaf mute before; but he has shaved off his beard, and stained his face,
so that it is no wonder I did not identify him; but the name satisfies
me that he was the first officer of the Yazoo."

"That means then that he is a regular officer of the Confederate
navy," suggested the captain; "and probably Lillyworth is also. The
only other name Dave was able to obtain was that of Spoors, one of the
quartermasters; and very likely he is also another."

"We have almost a double crew on board, Captain Passford, and what can
eight men do to capture this vessel?" asked Flint.

"I don't know what they intend to do, and I must give it up. Now I want
to read a letter to you that I have written; and you can tell me what
you think of it." The commander then read as follows from the sheet in
his hand, upon which appeared no end of changes and corrections:

  "TO THE COMMANDER OF ANY UNITED STATES SHIP OF WAR, _Sir_:-- The
  undersigned, master in the United States Navy, in temporary command
  of the United States Steamer Bronx, bound to the Gulf of Mexico,
  respectfully informs you that he has information, just received,
  of the approach to the coast of the southern states of two steamers,
  the Scotian and the Arran, believed to be fitted out as cruisers for
  the Confederate Navy. They will be due in these waters about March
  17. They are of about five hundred tons each. A letter from the
  confidential agent of my father, Captain Horatio Passford, an agent
  in whom he has perfect confidence, both on account of his loyalty
  to his country undivided, and because of his skill as a shipmaster,
  contains this statement, which is submitted to you for your
  guidance: 'I have put twelve loyal American seamen, with an officer,
  on board of each of the steamers mentioned above; and they comprise
  about one-half of the crew of each vessel; and they will take
  possession of each of the two steamers when supported by any United
  States man-of-war. WARNOCK.'

    Respectfully yours,
      CHRISTOPHER PASSFORD,
        _Master Commanding_."

"I beg your pardon, Captain Passford, but what under the canopy is that
letter for?" asked Flint, not a little excited.

"It is for Pink Mulgrum to copy," replied the captain. "That is all the
use I intend to make of it."

Flint leaned back in his chair and laughed heartily, and the commander
could not help joining him.




CHAPTER IX

A VOLUNTEER CAPTAIN'S CLERK


Mr. Flint was really amused at the plan of the commander of the Bronx,
as indicated in the letter he had just read, and he was not laughing out
of mere compliment to his superior officer, as some subordinates feel
obliged to do even when they feel more like weeping. Perhaps no one knew
Christy Passford so well as his executive officer, not even his own
father, for Flint had been with him in the most difficult and trying
ordeals of his life. He had been the young leader's second in command in
the capture of the Teaser, whose cabin they now occupied, and they had
been prisoners together. He had been amazed at his young companion's
audacity, but he had always justified his action in the end. They had
become excellent friends as well as associates in the navy, and there
was a hearty sympathy between them.

Christy laughed almost in spite of himself, for he had been giving very
serious attention to the situation on board of the Bronx. In the ship's
company were at least two officers on the other side of the great
question of the day, both of them doubtless men of great experience
in their profession, more mature in years than their opponent on this
chess-board of fate, and they had come on board of the steamer to
accomplish some important purpose. The game at which they were engaged
had already become quite exciting, especially as it looked as if the
final result was to be determined by strategy rather than hard fighting,
for Pawcett and Hungerford could hardly expect to capture the Bronx with
only a force of eight men.

"Mulgrum is to copy this letter," said Flint, suppressing his laughter.

"I have written the letter in order to have something for him to copy,
and at the same time to give him and his confederate something to think
about," replied Christy; and he could hardly help chuckling when he
thought of the effect the contents of the letter would produce in the
minds of those for whom the missive was really intended.

"Do you think they will swallow this fiction, Captain Passford?" asked
the first lieutenant.

"Why shouldn't they swallow it, hook, bait, and sinker? They are
Confederate agents beyond the possibility of a doubt; and they are
looking for a ship in which they intend to ravage the commerce of the
United States," replied Christy; and the question had done something to
stimulate his reasoning powers. "They want a vessel, and the Bronx would
suit them very well."

"But they will not attempt to capture her under present circumstances,
I am very confident. They know that we have about twenty seamen extra
on board."

"They know that certainly; but possibly they know some things in this
connection that we do not know," added Christy, as he put his hand on
his forehead, and leaned over the table, as though his mind were
strongly exercised by some serious question he was unable to answer
satisfactorily to himself.

"What can they know that we don't know in regard to this vessel?"
demanded Flint, looking quite as serious as the commander.

"Whether our extra men are loyal or not," answered Christy, dropping his
hand, and looking his companion full in the face.

"Do you think there is any doubt in regard to them?"

"I confess that I have not had a doubt till this moment," said the
captain, wiping the perspiration from his brow, for the terrible
possibility that any considerable portion of the extra men were in the
employ of the two Confederates had almost overcome him.

For a few moments he was silent as he thought of this tremendous idea.
It was appalling to think of going into action with the Scotian or the
Arran, or both of them, and have a part of his own force turn against
him on his own deck. This was possible, but he could hardly believe it
was probable. Dave had reported very faithfully to him all the details
of the conversation between the Confederates, and they had claimed only
six men. If they had any hold on the extra men on board, they would have
been likely to say so, or at least to speak more indefinitely than they
had of their expectations.

"Have you any friends on board, Mr. Flint, among the crew?" asked
Christy suddenly, as though a solution of the difficult question of the
loyalty of the men had suggested itself to him.

"I have at least half a dozen whom I worked hard to have drafted into
the Bronx, for I know that they are good and true men, though they may
not be able to pass the technical examination of the naval officers,"
replied the first lieutenant promptly. "I can trust every one of them as
far as I could trust myself. One of them was the mate of my vessel at
the time I sold her, and he has since been in command of her."

"Who is he?"

"His name is Baskirk; and he is a quartermaster now. I wrote to him, and
promised to do the best I could to advance him. He is not a graduate of
a college, but he is a well-informed man, well read, sober, honest, and
a man of good common-sense."

"The others?"

"McSpindle was a classmate of mine in college, and he is a capital
fellow. Unfortunately, he got into the habit of drinking more than was
good for him, and spoiled his immediate future. He has made two foreign
voyages, and he is a good seaman. He came home second mate of an
Indiaman, promoted on his merit. He is also a quartermaster," said
Flint, who was evidently very deeply interested in the persons he
described.

"Any more?"

"Luffard is a quartermaster, for I selected the best men I had for these
positions. He is a young fellow, and the son of a rich man in Portland.
He is a regular water bird, though he is not over eighteen years old."

"His age is no objection," added Christy with a smile.

"I suppose not; but I have taken Luffard on his bright promise rather
than for anything he has ever done, though I have seen him sail a
forty-footer in a race and win the first prize. The other men I happen
to think of just now have been sailors on board of my coaster. They are
good men, and I can vouch for their loyalty, though not for their
education. They are all petty officers."

"I have a mission for your men, to be undertaken at once, and I shall
be likely to want the first three you named for important positions, if
my orders do not fetter me too closely," said Christy. "As the matter
stands just now, Mr. Flint, it would hardly be expedient for us to
capture a schooner running the blockade for the want of an officer to
act as prize master."

"The three quartermasters I named are competent for this duty, for they
are navigators, and all of them have handled a vessel."

"I am glad to hear it; we are better off than I supposed we were. My
father told me that several vessels had been sent to the South short of
officers, and we are no worse off than some others, though what you say
makes us all right."

"I can find three officers on board who are as competent as I am, though
that is not saying much," added Flint.

"I can ask no better officers, then. But to return to this letter.
I have spent a considerable part of my time at Bonnydale in talking
with my father. He is in the confidence of the naval department."

"He ought to be, for he gave to the navy one of its best steamers, to
say the least."

"I don't want to brag of my father," suggested Christy, laughing;
"I only wanted to show that he is posted. Coming to the point at once,
putting this and that together of what I learned on shore, and of what
I have discovered on board of the Bronx, I am inclined to believe that
Pawcett and Hungerford have their mission on board of this steamer in
connection with the Scotian and the Arran. I will not stop now to
explain why I have this idea, for I shall obtain more evidence as
we proceed. At any rate, I thought I would put the ghost of a
stumbling-block in the path of these conspirators; and this is the
reason why I have put thirteen American seamen on board of each of the
expected steamers. If my conjectures are wrong the stumbling-block will
be nothing but a ghost; if I am right, it will make our men somewhat
cautious as to what they do if we should be so fortunate as to fall in
with the two vessels."

"I understand you perfectly, Captain Passford. You said that you had
something for my men to do at once; but you did not explain what this
duty was," said Flint. "If you require their services at once, I will
instruct them."

"I did not explain, for I have so many irons in the fire that I am
afraid I am getting them mixed, and I forgot to tell you what they were
to do. But I shall leave the details to be settled in your own way.
I want to know who are loyal men and who are not. There are at least
six men, according to the report of Dave, who are followers of Pawcett
and Hungerford. We don't know who they are; but doubtless they have
been selected for their shrewdness. Probably they will be looking for
information among the men. Spoors is one of them, and by watching him
some clew may be obtained to the others."

"I am confident my men can find out all you want to know," added the
first lieutenant.

"It should be done as soon as possible," replied the commander.

"Not a moment shall be lost. I have the deck at eight this morning, and
one of the quartermasters will be at the wheel. I will begin with him."

Mr. Flint left the cabin, for his breakfast was waiting for him in
the ward room. Christy walked through to the steerage, where he found
Mulgrum attending to the wants of the warrant officers as well as he
could. He looked at this man with vastly more interest than before he
had listened to Dave's report. It was easy to see that he was not an
ordinary man such as one would find in menial positions; but it was not
prudent for him to make a study of the man, for his quick eye was taking
in everything that occurred near him.

Eight bells struck, and Mr. Flint hastened on deck to relieve the second
lieutenant. Christy took his morning meal at a later hour, and when he
had finished it, he sent for Pink Mulgrum. Of course the conversation
had to be written, and the captain placed the scullion opposite himself
at the table.

"I learn from Mr. Lillyworth that you are a good writer, and that you
are well educated," Christy wrote on a piece of paper, passing it to the
deaf mute.

Mulgrum read the sentence, and nodded his head with something like
a smile. If Christy was a judge of his expression, he was certainly
pleased, evidently to find that his confederate's plan was working well.

"I have a letter of which I desire several copies. Can I trust you to
make these copies?" Christy wrote.

The man read and nodded his head eagerly.

"Will you promise on your honor as a man that you will not reveal what
you write to any person whatever?" Christy proceeded. Mulgrum read, and
nodded his head earnestly several times.

The commander procured paper and other writing materials for him,
and placed them before him. Then he seated himself again opposite the
copyist, and fixed his gaze upon him; unfolding the letter, of which he
had made a fair copy himself, he placed it under the eyes of the deaf
mute. Mulgrum had retained his smile till this moment. He had arranged
his paper and taken a pen in his hand. Then he began to read; as he
proceeded the smile deserted his face. He was plainly startled.




CHAPTER X

THE UNEXPECTED ORDERS


Christy sat for some minutes watching the expression of Mulgrum as he
read the letter he was to copy. Like a careful man, he was evidently
taking a glance at it as a whole. The interested observer could see that
he fixed his gaze upon the last part of the letter, the extract from the
missive of Warnock, relating to the twelve loyal American seamen and
their officer. In fact, he seemed to be paralyzed by what he read.

The commander was satisfied with what he had seen, and he rose from his
chair. His movement seemed to restore the self-possession of the deaf
mute, and he began to write very rapidly. Christy went into his state
room, where he kept all his important papers in his desk. He gave
himself up to a consideration of the situation in which he was placed.
He had partly closed the door. But he had not been in the room half an
hour before he heard a knock.

"Come in," said he, supposing the caller was Dave.

The door was pushed open, and Mulgrum came in with his tablet in his
hand. The deaf mute had certainly heard his reply to the knock, for
he had heeded it instantly, and he smiled at the manner in which the
conspirator had "given himself away." The scullion presented his tablet
to the captain with a very deferential bow.

"There is an error in the copy of the letter you gave me--in the
extract. If you will give me the original letter from Mr. Warnock,
I will correct the mistake," Christy read on the tablet. It was not
impossible that he had made a mistake in copying his letter; but the
object of Mulgrum in desiring to see the original of the letter from
England was sufficiently apparent. "Bring me my copy of the letter,"
he wrote on the tablet, and handed it back to the owner.

The captain took from his desk a bundle of letters and selected one,
which he opened and laid on the table, though not where his copyist
could see it. Mulgrum returned and presented him the letter, pointing
out the mistake he had discovered. He looked at the blind letter, and
then at the other. There was certainly an error, for his letter said
"and they comprise about one of crew of each vessel." This was nonsense,
for he had accidentally omitted the word "half" after "one." He inserted
the word above the line in its proper place, and gave it back to the
copyist. It was clear enough that Mulgrum was disappointed in the result
of this interview; but he took the letter and returned to the table.

At the end of another quarter of an hour, he brought the first copy of
the letter. He knocked as before, and though Christy told him in a loud
tone to come in, he did not do so. He repeated the words, but the
conspirator, possibly aware of the blunder he had made before, did
not make it again. Then he wrote on his tablet, after the captain had
approved his work, that he found the table very uncomfortable to write
upon while the ship was pitching so smartly, and suggested that he
should be allowed to make the rest of the copies on the desk in
the state room, if the captain did not desire to use it himself.
Unfortunately for the writer, he did desire to use it himself, and he
could not help smiling at the enterprise of the deaf mute in his attempt
to obtain an opportunity to forage among the papers in his drawers.

Mulgrum certainly did his work nicely and expeditiously, for he had
finished it at three bells in the forenoon watch. He was dismissed
then, for his presence was not particularly agreeable to the commander.
Christy locked his desk and all the drawers that contained papers, not
as against a thief or a burglar, but against one who would scorn to
appropriate anything of value that did not belong to him, for he had no
doubt now that Mulgrum was a gentleman who was trying to serve what he
regarded as his country, though it was nothing but a fraction of it.

In fact, inheriting, as it were, the broad and generous policy of his
father, Christy had no personal prejudices against this enemy of his
country, and he felt just as he would if he had been sailing a boat
against him, or playing a game of whist with him. He was determined to
beat him if he could. But he was not satisfied with locking his papers
up; he called Dave, and set him as a watch over them. If the conspirator
overhauled his papers, he would have been more concerned about what he
did not find than in relation to what he did find, for the absence of
the original of Warnock's letter would go far to convince him that the
extract from it was an invention.

When he had taken these precautions he went on deck. The wind was
blowing a moderate gale; but the Bronx was doing exceedingly well,
lifting herself very lightly over the foaming billows, and conveying
to one walking her deck the impression of solidity and strength. The
captain went to the bridge after a while, though not till he had noticed
that something was going on among the crew; but he was not disposed to
inquire into the matter, possibly regarding it as beneath the dignity of
a commander to do so.

Christy mounted the steps to the bridge. This structure is hardly
a man-of-war appendage. It had been there, and it had been permitted
to remain. The first shot in action might carry it away, and this
contingency had been provided for, as she was provided with a duplicate
steam-steering apparatus, as well as a hand wheel at the stern. The
proper position of the officer of the watch, who is practically in
command for the time being, is on the quarter deck, though he is
required during his watch to visit all parts of the deck. On board of
the Bronx this officer was placed on the bridge, where he could overlook
all parts of the ship.

The first lieutenant, who had the forenoon watch, saluted him, but there
was nothing of interest to report. Christy asked the meaning of the
movement he had observed among the seamen and petty officers, and was
told that Baskirk was getting up an association on board, the first
requirement to which was for all who wished to become members to sign
the oath of allegiance to the United States government, "as represented
by and presided over by the President at Washington." It was to be a
secret society, and Flint added that it was really a branch of the Union
League. Christy did not think it wise to ask any more questions, but he
understood that this was really a movement to ascertain the sentiments
of the members of the ship's company as to the extent of their duty in
supporting the government.

"Mr. Flint, I am not a little dissatisfied with the manner in which we
are compelled to carry on our duty on board of the Bronx, though no
blame is to be attached to the naval department on account of it," said
Christy, after he had walked the bridge for a time.

"Is anything going wrong, Captain Passford?" asked the first lieutenant
anxiously.

"Oh, no: I have no fault to find with any one, and least of all with
you," added the captain promptly. "The trouble is that we are short of
officers, though all that could be spared for this vessel were sent on
board of her. As the matter now stands, Dr. Spokeley and I are the only
idlers on board in the cabin and ward room. The first lieutenant has to
keep a watch, which is not at all regular, and I foresee that this
arrangement will be a very great disadvantage to me. It could not be
helped, and the Bronx was evidently regarded as of no great importance,
for she is little more than a storeship just now, though the flag
officer in the Gulf will doubtless make something more of her."

"We have a big crew for this vessel, but we are short of officers,"
added Flint.

"From the best calculations I have been able to make, with my father to
help me, we ought to fall in with the Scotian and the Arran; and in view
of such an event, I propose to prepare for the emergency by appointing a
temporary third lieutenant."

"I think that would be a very wise step to take," added Flint very
cordially.

"Of the men you mentioned to me, who is the best one for this position?"
asked Christy.

"I have no hesitation in saying that Baskirk is the right man for the
position."

"Very well; he shall be appointed," added Christy, as he left the
bridge. But in a few minutes he returned, and handed an order to the
first lieutenant.

Baskirk was sent for, and the captain had a long talk with him. He
found that the candidate had more knowledge of naval discipline than
he had supposed, and he was pleased with the man. He was the leading
quartermaster in rank, having been appointed first. After another talk
with Flint, the latter gave the order to pass the word for Mr. Giblock,
who was the acting boatswain, though in rank he was only a boatswain's
mate. He was directed to call all hands. When the ship's company were
assembled on the forward deck, though this is not the usual place for
such a gathering, the first lieutenant read the order of the commander
appointing George Baskirk as acting third lieutenant of the Bronx, and
directing that he should be respected and obeyed as such. A smart cheer
followed the announcement, though the second lieutenant, who had taken
a place on the bridge, looked as though he did not approve the step the
captain had taken. The officer of the deck next appointed Thomas McLinn
a quartermaster. The ship's company were then dismissed.

Just before noon by the clocks, Lieutenant Baskirk appeared on the
bridge, dressed in a brand-new uniform, with a sextant in his hands.
Christy, who did not depend upon his pay for the extent of his wardrobe,
had not less than three new suits, and he had presented one of them to
the newly appointed officer, for there was no material difference in the
size of the two persons. All the officers who kept watches were required
to "take the sun," and at the moment the meridian was crossed, the
captain gave the word to "make it noon," and the great bell sounded out
eight bells. The officers proceeded to figure up the results of the
observations. The longitude and latitude were entered on the log slate,
to be transferred to the log book. Baskirk was directed to take the
starboard watch, and he was formally presented to the second lieutenant
by the captain; and whatever his feeling or opinions in regard to the
step which had just been taken, he accepted the hand of the new officer
and treated him with proper courtesy.

"Latitude 37 52'," said the captain significantly, as he led the way
down from the bridge, attended by the first and third lieutenants.

They followed him to the captain's cabin. Christy gave them seats at
the table, and then went into his state room for the ponderous envelope
which contained his orders. He seated himself between his two officers;
but before he broke the great seal, he discovered Dave in the passageway
making energetic signs to him. He hastened to him, and followed him into
the ward room.

"Pink is under your berth in the state room," whispered the steward in
the most impressive manner.

"All right, Dave; you have been faithful to your duty," said Christy,
as he hastened back into his cabin.

Resuming his place at the table, he broke the seal of the huge envelope.
He unfolded the inclosed instructions, and ran over them without
speaking a word.

"We have nothing to do on this cruise," said he, apparently taking his
idea from the paper in his hand. "I will read the material parts of it,"
he continued in a much louder tone than the size of the cabin and the
nearness of his auditors seemed to demand. "'You will proceed with all
reasonable despatch to the Gulf of Mexico, and report to the flag
officer, or his representative, of the eastern Gulf Squadron. You will
attempt no operations on your passage, and if an enemy appears you will
avoid her if possible with honor.' That's all, gentlemen."

The two listeners seemed to be utterly confounded.




CHAPTER XI

ANOTHER READING OF THE SEALED ORDERS


Christy finished the reading of the orders, folded up the document, and
put it in his pocket. But he immediately took it out and unfolded it
again, as though a new thought had struck him. Flint watched him with
the utmost attention, and he realized that the bearing of the commander
was quite different from his usual manner; but he attributed it to the
very unexpected nature of the orders he had just read. He was distinctly
directed to attempt no operations on the passage, and to proceed to the
destination indicated with all reasonable despatch.

The wording of the order was rather peculiar, and somewhat clumsy,
Flint thought; but then he had been a schoolmaster, and perhaps he
was inclined to be over-critical. But the meaning of the first clause
could not be mistaken, however, though the word "operations" seemed
to indicate something on a grander scale and more prolonged than an
encounter with a blockade-runner, or a Confederate man-of-war; something
in the nature of a campaign on shore, or a thorough scouring of the
ocean in search of the vessels of the enemy.

But any such interpretation of the order was rendered impossible by what
followed. The commander was distinctly forbidden to engage the enemy if
such an encounter could be avoided "with honor." The first lieutenant
knew that a combat could be easily avoided simply by not following up
any suspicious craft, unless a fully manned and armed Confederate
cruiser presented herself, and then it might be honorable to run away
from her. There was no mistaking the meaning of the orders, and there
was no chance to strain a point, and fall upon one or both of the
expected steamers.

The captain was strictly enjoined from meddling with them, even if they
came in his way. If they chased the Bronx, she would be justified in
defending herself under the orders; and that was the most she could do.
Flint was terribly disappointed, and he regarded the commander with the
deepest interest to learn what interpretation he would give to the
orders, though there seemed to him to be no room even to take advantage
of any fortunate circumstance.

The appearance of the commander did not throw any new light upon the
contents of the document. After he had finished the reading of the
paper, Christy sat in his chair, apparently still looking it over, as
though he did not fully comprehend its meaning. But he made no sign and
indulged in no remark of any kind, and in a few moments folded the order
and put it back into his pocket. Undoubtedly he was thinking very
energetically of something, but he did not reveal the nature of his
reflections.

Flint concluded that he was utterly dissatisfied with his orders, and
even regarded them as a slight upon himself as the commander of the
steamer for the time being. It was not customary to direct captains
to avoid the enemy under all circumstances that were likely to be
presented. The first lieutenant began to realize the disadvantage of
sailing with a captain so young, for it looked to him as though the
strange order had been issued on account of the youth of the commander.

When Christy had restored the paper to his pocket, he rose from his
seat, and thus indicated that there was to be no consultation with the
officers in regard to the unusual instructions. The two officers rose at
the same time, and closely observed the face of the commander; but this
time Flint could find nothing there as serious as he had observed
before; in fact, there was a twinkle in his eye that looked promising.

"Gentlemen, it is dinner time in the ward room, and I will not detain
you any longer," said Christy, as politely as he usually spoke to his
officers, though the opera of "Pinafore" had not been written at that
time.

Flint bowed to his captain, and left the cabin; and his example was
followed by Baskirk. Christy certainly did not look as though he were
embarrassed by his orders, or as if he were disappointed at the
restrictions they imposed upon him. He left the cabin so that Dave could
prepare his table for dinner as he had the time to do so. He left the
cabin; but in the passage he called the steward to him, and whispered a
brief sentence to him.

He then ascended to the deck, and proceeded to take a "constitutional"
on the windward side of the quarter deck. The gale had moderated very
sensibly, though the wind was still from the southward. The sea was
still quite rough, though it was likely to subside very soon. After the
captain had walked as long as he cared to do, he mounted the bridge.

"What do you think of the weather, Mr. Lillyworth?" he asked of the
officer of the deck, after he had politely returned his salute.

"I don't believe we shall have any more wind today," replied the second
lieutenant, as he looked wisely at the weather indications the sky
presented. "But it don't look much like fairing off, and I shall look
for fog as long as the wind holds where it is."

"I have been expecting to be buried in fog," added the captain, as he
took a survey of the deck beneath him. "I see by the log slate that we
are making fifteen knots an hour, and we certainly are not driving her."

"There can be no doubt that this is a very fast vessel," said Mr.
Lillyworth. "Well, she ought to be, for I understand that she was built
for a nobleman's yacht, and such men want speed, and are willing to pay
for it."

"By tomorrow, we shall be in the latitude of the Bermudas, and most of
the blockade runners put in there, or some more southern port, to get
the news, and obtain a pilot, if they don't happen to have one on
board."

"That seems to be the way they do it."

"This fog is favorable to blockade runners if they have a skilful pilot
on board; and they all contrive to have such a one," added the captain,
as he moved towards the steps to the deck.

"I suppose you have opened your sealed orders, Captain Passford," said
the second lieutenant, who seemed to be interested in this subject. "We
have crossed the thirty-eighth parallel."

"Yes; I have opened the envelope, and found the orders very peculiar
and very disappointing," replied the captain as he took a step on the
ladder. "But you will excuse me now from speaking of them, for I have
another matter on my mind."

Christy thought Pink Mulgrum might as well tell him about the orders and
he could at least save his breath if he had no other motive for leaving
the second lieutenant in the dark for the present. He went to the deck,
and then down into the cabin. His breakfast was ready, but Dave was not
there, and he walked forward into the ward room, from which he saw
Mulgrum replenishing the table in the steerage. He had evacuated his
place under the berth in the state room, and the captain went to his
breakfast in his cabin. Dave soon appeared with the hot dishes from the
galley, for he had seen Christy take his place at the table.

"What's the news, Dave?" asked the captain.

"No news, sir, except that I gave Pink a chance to get out of that state
room," replied the steward, spreading out his broadest smile. "I spoke
out loud just like I was calling to some one in the ward room, 'No, sir,
I can't go now; I have to go to the galley for the dishes.' Then I left
the cabin, and went forward; when I came back, I looked under your
berth, sir, and Pink wasn't there then."

"How did you know he was under the berth in the first place, Dave?"

"Just before eight bells I saw him cleaning the brasses on the door.
I think he will wear those door knobs all out before the cruise is up.
I knew he was up to something, and I just watched him. He went out of
sight and I did not know where he was. Then I took the feather duster,
and worked about the cabin; but I couldn't find him. Then I dusted the
state room, and then I did find him."

"You have rendered good service, Dave, and I shall not forget it," added
Christy. "Where are Mr. Flint and Mr. Baskirk?"

"In the ward room, sir."

"Give my compliments to them, and say that I wish to see them in my
cabin in about ten minutes," continued the captain.

Dave left the cabin, and Christy devoted himself to his breakfast; and
in his haste to meet the officers indicated, he hurried the meal more
than was prudent for the digestion. The steward reported that he had
delivered the message, and Christy finished his hasty collation.

The table was hurriedly cleared by the steward, and the captain paid a
visit to his state room, during which he did not fail to look under his
berth. He had a trunk there, and he saw that it had been moved to the
front of the space, so that there was room enough for the conspirator to
conceal his body behind it, though his was a good-sized body. Returning
to the cabin, he took his usual seat at the table, facing the door. In a
few minutes more Mr. Flint and Mr. Baskirk came to the door and were
invited to come in. Dave had returned from the galley, and he was
instructed to watch that door as he was told to close it.

  [Illustration: Dave finds Mulgrum under the berth.]

Flint took the seat assigned to him, and Baskirk was placed opposite to
him. The first lieutenant appeared to be a great deal more dissatisfied
than the captain; but then he was a poor man, and next to his duty to
his country, he was as anxious as the average officer to make all the
money he could out of the prizes captured by his ship. It looked to him
as though all his chances had slipped beyond his reach for the present.

Flint had taken no little stock in the two steamers that were expected
on the coast at this time, and in spite of the treachery anticipated he
had counted upon a share in at least one of them. He knew very well that
the commander, from sharp experience at his side some months before,
would not pass by an opportunity to strike a blow, even in the face of
any reasonable risk. But now, as he looked at it, the wings of the young
captain had been clipped by the authorities at Washington, in the sealed
orders.

"I am glad to meet you again, gentlemen; indeed I may say that I am
particularly glad to see you," said Christy in his most cheerful tones,
as he looked about the cabin, and especially at the ports, to see if
there was a spy looking in at one of them.

The thought came to him then and there that it was possible for a man to
hang over the rail, and place one of his ears at an opening and listen
to what was going on; and besides there were, besides Mulgrum, six
others who were capable of doing such a thing. He sent Mr. Baskirk on
deck to see that no man was at work over the side. He returned and
reported that no one was in a position to hear what was said in the
cabin.

Flint did not seem to be as much interested in the proceedings as on
former occasions, for he had had time to consider the effect of the
orders, and he saw no way to evade them. They might pick up some cotton
schooners, but no such prizes as the Scotian and the Arran were likely
to be taken when the steamer reached her station, wherever it might be,
and the whole squadron shared the proceeds of the captures.

"You listened to the orders I read this noon," began Christy, with a
pronounced twinkling of his eyes.

"Yes, sir; and, Captain Passford, I have felt as if the gates of honor
and profit had been closed against the Bronx," added Flint.

"Perhaps a second reading of the orders will put a different aspect on
the gates," said the captain with a significant smile, the force of
which, however, the first lieutenant failed to comprehend.

"Under these orders there seems to be no alternative but to hasten to
the Gulf of Mexico, and run away from any blockade runner we may happen
to see," growled Flint.

"You are not as amiable as usual, Mr. Flint."

"How can one be amiable under such orders?" added Flint, trying to
smile.

"I will read them over again, now that we have not as many auditors as
before," said the captain.

Christy proceeded to read the document as it was written.




CHAPTER XII

A SAIL ON THE STARBOARD BOW


Before Captain Passford had read two lines of the document in his hands,
a noise as of a scuffle was heard in the passage way to the ward room.
Mr. Baskirk was sent to ascertain the cause of the disturbance, and he
threw the door wide open. Dave was there, blocking the passage way, and
Pink Mulgrum was trying to force his way towards the cabin door. The
steward declared that no one must go to the cabin; it was the order of
the captain himself. Mulgrum found it convenient not to hear on this
occasion. The moment Baskirk appeared, the deaf mute exhibited a paper,
which he passed to the new lieutenant, evidently satisfied that he could
get no nearer to the door. When he had delivered the paper, he hastened
up the ladder to the deck. Dave came into the cabin and explained that
Mulgrum had tried to force him out of the way, and he had resisted. The
intruder did not exhibit any paper till the third lieutenant appeared at
the door.

"That man is very persevering in his efforts to procure information,"
said Christy, as he unfolded the paper. "'The fog is very dense ahead,
and we shall soon be shut in by it,'" he read from the paper. "Mr.
Lillyworth might have found a man that could speak for his messenger,"
he continued, "but of course he wanted to assist his confederate to
obtain more information."

"I don't see what he wants to know now, for Mulgrum has told him the
contents of the sealed envelope before this time, and he knows that the
gates are closed against us," added Flint. "It is plain enough that they
have had their heads together."

"Certainly they have; but Mr. Lillyworth may not be any better satisfied
with his information than you are, Mr. Flint," replied the captain, with
an expressive smile, though he felt that his fellow officer had been
tantalized long enough by the circumstances. "I have read and studied my
orders very attentively. They direct me to proceed with all reasonable
despatch to the Gulf of Mexico, and report to the flag officer of the
Eastern Gulf Squadron, or his representative."

"'But information has been received,'" continued Christy, reading what
he had not read before, "'that two steamers, probably fitted out for
service in the Confederate navy, are approaching the coast of the
Southern States, and it is very important that they should be
intercepted. Both of these vessels are reported to have small crews,
but they are said to be fast. The department regrets that it has not a
suitable steamer available to send in search of these two vessels; but
relying upon your well-known patriotism and the excellent record you
have already made, you are instructed to intercept them, even if you
are delayed a week or more by any hopeful circumstances.' That is the
material portion of my orders," added Christy, as he read the last
sentence. "But I beg you to bear in mind that I did not write the
commendatory expressions in the paper."

"But they are as true as the holy Gospels!" exclaimed Flint, springing
out of his chair in the heat of the excitement which the new reading of
the orders produced in his mind. "But I thought you had read the sealed
orders to us before, Captain Passford."

"I read but a very small part of them before; and as I had to improvise
the greater part of what I read, or rather did not read, but simply
uttered, the language was not all well chosen," replied Christy,
laughing in spite of all his attempts to maintain his dignity. "The fact
is, Mr. Flint, I had too many listeners when I read the paper before."

"There was no one in the cabin but Mr. Baskirk and myself, and Dave had
been stationed at the door; or at least he was there, for he beckoned
you out into the gangway just as you were beginning to read the orders,"
argued Flint. "Possibly I should have understood the first reading
better if I had not seen for myself that you had taken all precautions
against any listener. You went out when Dave called you; but you were
not gone half a minute; and that was not long enough for the steward to
spin any long yarn."

"But it was long enough for Dave to tell me that Pink Mulgrum was under
my berth, with the state room door open," replied Christy.

"Just so; I comprehend the whole matter now," said Flint, joining the
captain in the laugh.

"Now you know what my instructions are, gentlemen," continued the
commander, "and I hope and believe that Mr. Lillyworth and his right
hand man do not know them. I think you have been already posted, Mr.
Baskirk, in regard to the anomalous state of affairs on board of the
Bronx," added the captain.

"Not fully, Captain Passford; but Mr. Flint has told me something about
the situation," replied the third lieutenant.

"It may not be necessary, gentlemen, that I should say it, but not a
word of what passes in my cabin is to be repeated in any other part of
the ship; not even in the ward room when you believe you are entirely
alone," said the captain, very earnestly and impressively. "If the doors
and keyholes do not have ears, there may be ears behind them, as some of
us have learned to our entire satisfaction."

"Not a word from me, Captain Passford," added Baskirk.

"And not one from me," repeated Flint.

"Unquestionably the curiosity of Mr. Lillyworth and his confederate
are and will continue to be excited to the highest pitch," continued
Christy. "I shall have occasion to change the course of the ship, and
head her more to the eastward. Of course the second lieutenant will
observe this, and will understand that I am not following the orders
reported to him by Mulgrum. You are my only confidants on board, and it
will be necessary for you to refer Mr. Lillyworth to me when he asks for
further information."

"Perfectly understood," replied Flint, who was now in most excellent
humor.

"Now, gentlemen, I will leave you in my cabin that Mr. Baskirk may be
more fully instructed in regard to the matters which have passed between
Mr. Flint and myself. I have great expectations in regard to you, Mr.
Baskirk, and I am confident that you will realize them."

Saying this, Christy bowed to his companions, and left the cabin,
retiring to his state room and closing the door. He had on board a full
supply of charts and nautical instruments of his own, in addition to
those belonging to the ship. Spreading out the chart of the South
Atlantic on the desk, he went to work with his dividers and parallel
rule. He made his figures on a piece of paper, and then laid off a
course on the chart with a pencil, to be deepened in red ink at another
time.

Writing "southeast by east" on a slip of paper, he restored his charts
and instruments to their places and left the state room. The two
lieutenants were still in his cabin, but he did not disturb them and
went on deck. Before he reached the bridge, six bells struck, or three
o'clock in the afternoon. He then ascended the ladder to the bridge. The
fog which the second lieutenant had predicted had not yet enveloped the
ship; on the contrary, it looked more like clearing off, and some
patches of blue sky could be seen.

"Mr. Lillyworth, you will make the course southeast by east," said
Christy, looking at the officer of the deck.

"Southeast by east!" exclaimed the second lieutenant; and his remark
needed an exclamation point after it, for though it was customary to
repeat an order to make sure that it was understood, he did so in such
a tone and in such a manner as to manifest very clearly his astonishment
at the nature of the order. The former course had been south by west.

One thing was fully evident from this surprise--that the officer of the
deck gave full faith to the bogus instructions which had been imparted
to him by Mulgrum. He believed that the Bronx was to hasten to the Gulf,
as the former course indicated. It was plain enough to Lillyworth that
the captain was disregarding his instructions; but his lips were sealed
in regard to this disobedience, for he could not indicate in any manner
that he knew the purport of the sealed orders; and doubtless it did not
occur to him that the deaf mute had been blinded, in addition to his
other infirmities. The course was given out to the quartermaster at the
wheel. The steamer promptly fell off, and began to ride quartering over
the smart billows, brought out by the wind from the south-southwest, as
it had blown for the last hour or more.

Christy believed that he had put everything in train for accomplishing
the mission of the Bronx on the new course he had just ordered. There
were no more orders to be read, and he did not see that the conspirators
could do anything more to derange the plans of the loyal officers and
seamen on board. All they had attempted so far was to obtain information
in regard to the movements of the vessel; and Christy had taken care
that they should receive all the information they wanted, though not as
reliable as it might have been. He was satisfied with the situation as
it must remain till some decided event should call for energetic action.

The captain and the two ward-room officers in his confidence were
obliged to conduct themselves with the utmost caution and discretion in
order not to undo anything which had been done in blinding the eyes of
the conspirators. Christy had an abundance of writing to do, and it was
of a kind that would not betray any of his secrets; he called upon
Mulgrum to do this work, in order to keep up appearances. He did not
call any more conferences with his friends in the cabin, for there was
no need of any, and entire silence was the more prudent.

The Bronx proceeded on the course the captain had given out until the
twentieth of the month, when the steamer was a little to the southward
of the Bermudas. She had not been near enough to the islands to be made
out from the shore. On this day, when the Bronx was three days from
Sandy Hook, the fog which Mr. Lillyworth had been predicting settled
down on the steamer, not as dense as it might be, but thick enough to
prevent those on board of her from seeing anything at any great distance
from her. The second lieutenant, in charge of the deck, suggested to the
captain that the whistle should be blown; but Christy answered very
emphatically that no whistles were to be blown; though he ordered the
lookouts to be doubled, and the steamer to proceed at half speed.

In the middle of the second dog watch, in charge of Mr. Baskirk, the
lookout on the topsail yard made himself heard, and the others aloft
repeated the call.

"Sail on the starboard bow, sir!" said the first lookout from the yard,
hailing the bridge.

Captain Passford heard the hail from aloft, for he was planking the deck
with the first lieutenant. Both of them rushed forward at a pace rather
undignified for a commander.

"Silence, aloft!" shouted the captain. "We have made her out. Mr. Flint,
you will take the deck, and call all hands without any unnecessary
noise."

This order was given to Giblock, the boatswain, and in a minute or two
every man on board was in his station. The first lieutenant remained on
the bridge, but the second took his place in the waist, and the third
forward, though this arrangement of the officers was not sanctioned by
ancient usage. Silence was commanded, and the engine, working at half
speed, made hardly any noise. The captain had spoken to Sampson, the
chief engineer, and he had done his best to avoid all noise in his
department.

The captain and the first lieutenant remained on the bridge, anxiously
sighting in the direction in which the sail had been reported to be. As
the captain had instructed the engineer to do, he had caused the fires
to be reduced and a change of fuel used so that the smokestack of the
Bronx was just beginning to send up volumes of black smoke. The bunkers
contained a small portion of soft coal for this purpose.




CHAPTER XIII

THE STEAMER IN THE FOG


The Bronx was slowly approaching the steamer in the fog, which appeared
to have stopped her propeller, and to be resting motionless on the long
swells, hardly disturbed by a breath of air. By this time the smokestack
of the Bronx was vomiting forth dense clouds of black smoke. The
steamers of the navy used anthracite coal, which burns without any
great volume of smoke, and blockade runners had already begun to lay
in whatever stock of it they were able to procure to be used as they
approached the coast where they were to steal through the national
fleet. The attention of the naval department of the United States had
already been given to this subject, and the first steps had been taken
to prevent the sale of this comparatively smokeless coal where it could
be obtained by the blockade runners.

Christy had been on the blockade; and he had been in action with a
steamer from the other side of the ocean; and he knew that this black
smoke of the soft coal, exclusively used by English steamers, was a
telltale in regard to such vessels. It had been an idea of his own to
take in a supply of this kind of fuel, for while its smoke betrayed the
character of vessels intending to run the blockade, the absence of it
betrayed the loyalty of the national steamers to the blockade runners.
It was a poor rule that would not work both ways, and the commander of
the Bronx had determined to adopt the scheme he had now put in force on
board of his vessel. Although the craft on the starboard bow could
hardly be distinguished in the fog, Christy had sent a trusty seaman
aloft to report on the color of the smoke that issued from her funnel.

This man had reported by swinging his cap in the air, as the captain had
instructed him to do if he found that the smoke was that of soft coal.
If there was no black smoke, he was to return to the deck without making
any sign. The moment therefore that the man had been able to see the
quality of the smoke, the commander was made as wise as though he had
seen it himself. The information left him no doubt that the steamer was
intended to run the blockade; but whether or not she was one of the
expected pair, of course he could form no opinion, for already this part
of the ocean had begun to swarm with vessels in this service.

"I am beginning to make her out a little better," said Flint, who had
been straining his eyes to the utmost capacity, as everybody else on
board was doing, to obtain the best and earliest information in regard
to the stranger on the starboard bow.

"What do you make out, Mr. Flint?" asked Christy, who was too busily
employed in watching the movements of the officers and seamen on his own
deck to give especial attention to the character of the other steamer.

"I can't see well enough yet to say anything in regard to details,"
replied the first lieutenant. "I can only make out her form and size;
and she seems to be as nearly like the Bronx as one pea is like another,
though I should say that she was longer."

"Is she in motion?" asked the captain with interest.

"She appears to be at rest, though it is possible that she is moving
very slowly; but if she has not stopped her screw, she is not going more
than four knots."

"You say that she is built like the Bronx, Mr. Flint?" asked Christy
anxiously.

"Just like her; I should say that both hulls came out of the same
mould."

"That very nearly settles the question in my mind. Probably she was
designed by the same naval architect, and constructed by the same
builders, as the Bronx," replied Christy, gazing intently at the dim
outlines of the steamer in the fog. "When a designer has made a great
reputation for fast ships, men with piles of money, like the former
owners of the Bronx, the Scotian, and the Arran, employ him to furnish
the plans for their steam yachts. From what we have learned so far,
though it is very little indeed, I feel reasonably sure that this
steamer ahead of us is the Scotian or the Arran, and I don't care much
which it is. But why has she stopped her screw, or reduced her speed to
four knots?"

"That is a question that can only be answered an hour or two hence, if
ever," replied the first lieutenant.

"But it is a very important question all the same," added Christy.

"I doubt if the Bronx is making four knots at the present moment," said
Flint, as he went to the end of the bridge, and looked down into the
water.

"In changing the fires in the furnaces, Mr. Sampson had been obliged to
clear them out in part, and that has reduced the pressure of steam; but
we shall soon have the usual head," said Christy, as he went to the
speaking tube and communicated with the chief engineer.

He was informed that his explanation was correct in regard to the coal,
and that in a very short time the boilers would have a full head of
steam. Christy spent the next few minutes in an earnest study of the
scarcely perceptible outline of the steamer in the fog. He was hardly
wiser when he had finished his examination than before. The hull and
lower masts of the vessel could be indistinctly made out, and that was
all. Sampson informed him that he had not been using all the steam he
had, and that the screw was hardly turning at all. He ordered him to
stop it entirely.

Impatient as he was to follow up the discovery that had been made, he
realized that it would be very imprudent to expose his ship to possible
danger when he had not steam enough to work her to the best advantage.
He could only wait; but he was satisfied that he had done the best
possible thing in changing the coal, for the black smoke would
effectually blind the officers of the other vessel. They were not
engaged in a chase, and the exciting question could be settled a few
hours hence as well as at the present time.

"If the steamer ahead is the Scotian or the Arran, as I fully believe
she is, probably her consort is somewhere in these waters," said the
commander.

"Probably she lost sight of her in this fog," added Flint. "But, Captain
Passford, we are in the face of something, though we do not yet know
precisely what. I suppose you have your eye on Mr. Lillyworth?"

"I have kept him in sight all the time. He is on the quarter deck now,
as he has been since all hands were called," replied Christy, who had
not failed to look at him for a full minute since the discovery of the
sail on the starboard. "He seems to be perplexed by the situation, and
his time for action, if he intends to act, has not yet come."

"I don't see Pink Mulgrum anywhere about the deck."

"I saw him a few minutes since," added Christy. "He passed several times
quite near Mr. Lillyworth, and very likely something was said between
them; but they had no long talk."

Christy had charged Dave to watch Mulgrum if he went below, and to
follow him up closely; but the deaf mute had been on deck most of the
time. There was nothing that he could do, and nothing that the second
lieutenant could do, to embarrass the operations of the ship while she
remained at rest. The captain then descended to the deck, and personally
looked into the condition of everything. In the course of his round he
came to the quarter deck where the second lieutenant was stationed. He
could see that he was nervous and uneasy about something, and it was not
difficult to divine what perplexed him. He could hardly see the black
smoke from the funnel of the steamer in the fog, for his place on the
deck did not permit him to obtain as good a view of her as could be had
from the bridge, and especially from aloft.

"Do you make out what that vessel is, Captain Passford?" asked
Lillyworth, as Christy passed near him.

"Not yet, Mr. Lillyworth," replied the captain, not caring to converse
with the conspirator.

"The fog does not seem to be very dense, and I should think the vessel
might be made out from aloft," added the second lieutenant, evidently
very anxious to know more about the sail ahead.

"Not very clearly," replied Christy, as he went forward to the engine
hatch.

He descended to the engine room, and while he was listening to the roar
of the flames in the furnaces, so different from the action of
anthracite coal, Sampson came up from the fire room.

"We shall have a sufficient head of steam in a few minutes to justify
you in going ahead, Captain Passford," said the engineer without waiting
to be questioned.

"I am glad to hear it, though we are in no special hurry at present, in
spite of our impatience to know what is before us," replied the captain.
"Do you know the man who passes under the name of Mulgrum, Mr. Sampson?"

"You mean Pink, the deaf mute? Mr. Nawood pointed him out to me, and I
have seen him about the deck or in the steerage several times."

"Has he been in the engine room at any time since we sailed?" asked
Christy.

"He may have been; but I have not noticed him anywhere in my
department," replied Sampson.

"You will not allow him in the engine or fire room," continued the
captain. "Send him out, drive him out, if necessary, at once."

"Being deaf and dumb, I should suppose he were harmless wherever he
happened to be. Is he--"

"Never mind what he is just now, Mr. Sampson," interposed Christy. "Be
very particular to obey my order in regard to him to the letter; that's
all now. Inform me at once when you are ready to go ahead, and I shall
be on the bridge."

The order which Christy had just given to the engineer was the result of
his reflection since he came down from the bridge. He had been
cudgelling his brains to determine what the conspirators could possibly
do when the decisive moment came, if it should happen to come as he
neared the steamer in the fog, to derange the operations on board. It
seemed to him before that all they could do was to leap on board of the
enemy, if it came to boarding her, and reinforce her crew. He had talked
over this matter with Flint and Baskirk, and there were three who would
be ready to shoot either of them the instant their treachery should be
apparent.

Before it would be possible to board, a man as intelligent as Mulgrum,
who had served as executive officer, could easily disable the engine.
This idea had but just come to the commander, who thought before that he
had closed every opening against the conspirators. He went on deck as
soon as he had settled this matter. The fog seemed to be rather more
dense than before, and when he went on the bridge, it was reported that
the stranger could no longer be made out.

"I have just received the roster of the 'Bronx Association,'" said
Flint, as the captain joined him. "It is signed by every man on board,
including the supernumeraries forward, except Spoors, Blocker, Veering,
Packer, Pickford, and Runyon. I inquired why these men would not join,
but could not learn that they had any reason except that they did not
wish to be members. I have seen Mr. Lillyworth talking to all of these
men, and I think we can be certain now who is white and who is black."

"On the bridge!" came from the speaking tube, at this moment, and the
captain was near enough to hear it. Mr. Sampson reported that he had
steam enough to make at least ten knots an hour.

The commander then instructed the first lieutenant to see that both
divisions of boarders were armed with cutlass and revolver, in readiness
for action. The second lieutenant was to attend to the working of the
broadside guns, Mr. Baskirk was to lead the first division of boarders,
and Mr. Giblock, the boatswain, the second. Flint went below to the deck
to execute his orders, and the captain ordered the quartermaster to ring
one bell.




CHAPTER XIV

THE CONFEDERATE STEAMER SCOTIAN


One bell sounded on the gong in the engine room, and the Bronx began to
go ahead. Christy felt that the most tremendous hour of his lifetime had
come, and he struggled to keep down the excitement which agitated him;
and he succeeded so far that he appeared to be the coolest man on board
of the ship. When Flint came in the vicinity of the bridge, he called to
him to join him. The men were procuring their revolvers and cutlasses,
and he had a moment to spare. The captain instructed him to conceal the
boarders so that they could not be seen on board the steamer in the fog
when the Bronx came up with her. He added some other details to his
orders.

"If possible, I wish you to keep as near Lillyworth as you can,"
continued Christy, "for I shall not have the opportunity to watch him.
This war cannot be conducted on peace principles, and if that man
attempts to defeat my orders in any manner, don't hesitate to put a ball
from your revolver through his heart. Use reasonable care, Mr. Flint,
but bear in mind that I am not to be defeated in the capture of that
steamer, if she proves to be what I suppose she is, by the treachery of
one who accepted a position as an officer on board of the Bronx." The
commander was firm and decided in his manner, and Flint had served with
him enough to know that he meant what he said.

"I will obey your orders to the letter, Captain Passford, using all
reasonable precautions in the discharge of my duty," replied Flint.
"Mr. Lillyworth was in a state of mutiny just now, and spoke to me."

"What did he say?"

"He declared that he was second lieutenant of the ship, and it was his
right to command the first division of boarders. He wouldn't stand it.
I told him he was to be in command of the guns. He insisted that you did
not intend to fire a gun if you could help it. I replied that we should
not board the vessel either if we could help it. But I had no time to
argue with him, and referred him to the captain. Then he moved towards
the ladder of the bridge, and I forbade him to leave his station. That
is the whole of it. I have seen him speak to each of the six men we now
know to be his friends, to say nothing of Mulgrum. I left him then."

"All right so far, Mr. Flint. Return to the deck, if you please, and be
sure that the boarders are kept out of sight from this moment," added
Christy. "Quartermaster, ring four bells," he added, turning to the
pilot house.

"Four bells, sir," repeated McSpindle, who was at the wheel.

The Bronx soon began to feel the effect of this order, and the smoke
poured out in increased volume from the smokestack, affected by the
stronger draught produced by the additional speed.

"On the topsail yard!" called the captain, directing his speaking
trumpet aloft.

"On the bridge, sir!" replied the man.

"Can you make out the steamer?"

"No, sir; only her topmasts and fore rigging."

"How does she lie from the Bronx?"

"Still on the starboard bow, sir."

"Port the helm, quartermaster," added the captain.

"Port, sir," replied McSpindle.

For about five minutes more, the Bronx went ahead at full speed, and
Christy was confident that she was again making fifteen knots.

"On the bridge, sir!" called the man on the fore yard.

"Aloft!"

"I make her out now; she has the Confederate flag at the peak."

"All right!" exclaimed Christy to himself, though he spoke out loud.

The steamer had set her colors, and there was no longer any doubt in
regard to her character. The flag also indicated that she was not a
blockade runner in the ordinary sense of the word, but a Confederate
man-of-war. Warnock reported that she had taken her armament on board
from another vessel at some point south of England, and the colors also
assured Christy that the steamer was one of the pair expected.

Still the Bronx went ahead at full speed, and presently a gun was heard
from the direction in which she lay, though the captain was unable to
decide what it meant. It might be a signal of distress, but the man on
the yard had not reported the colors as union down; and it might be
simply a defiance. It was probable that the Scotian and Arran had put
in at St. George, and it was more than possible that they had shipped
a reinforcement to her reported small crew.

"Aloft!" called the captain again.

"On the bridge, sir!" replied the lookout.

"Is the steamer under way?"

"I think not, sir; but I can't make out her wake, it is so low."

"Starboard a little, quartermaster."

"Starboard, sir."

Christy heard, or thought he heard, for he was not sure about it, the
sound of a bell. A minute later the quartermaster in the pilot house
struck seven bells, which was repeated on the top-gallant forecastle of
the Bronx, and he was confident this was what he had heard on board of
the stranger.

"Quartermaster, strike one bell," he added.

"One bell, sir;" and the gong resounded from the engine room, and the
speed of the Bronx was immediately reduced.

A minute later Christy obtained a full view of the steamer. She was
headed to the southwest, and her propeller was not in motion. As the
lookout had reported, she was the counterpart of the Bronx, though she
was a larger vessel. He gave some further orders to the quartermaster at
the wheel, for he had decided to board the steamer on her port side. The
boarders had been concealed in proper places under this arrangement, and
the captain had directed the course of the Bronx so that a shot from her
could hardly do any harm, if she took it into her head to fire one.

"Arran, ahoy!" shouted a hoarse voice through a speaking trumpet from
the steamer.

"On board the Scotian!" replied Christy through his trumpet.

After the vessel had hailed the Arran, the captain had no difficulty
in deciding that the other craft was the Scotian; and he was especially
glad that the officer of that vessel had hailed him in this particular
form. The single word spoken through that trumpet was the key to the
entire enigma. Every possible doubt was removed by it. He was now
assured, as he had not been before, that he had fallen in with one of
the two vessels of which his father had given him information, and which
his sealed orders required him to seek, even if he was detained a week
or more. Christy spent no time in congratulating himself on the
situation, but the tremendous idea passed through his whole being
in an instant.

"We are disabled!" shouted the officer on board of the Scotian through
his trumpet. "Please send your engineer on board."

"All right!" replied Christy. "Go ahead a little faster, Mr. Sampson.
We are very near the steamer."

The young commander cast his eyes over the deck of his vessel to assure
himself that everything was ready for the important moment, though the
situation did not indicate that a very sharp battle was to be fought.
Everything was in order, and the first lieutenant was planking the deck,
looking as though he felt quite at home, for he was as cool as a Jersey
cucumber. Farther aft was Lillyworth, as uneasy as a caged tiger, for
no doubt he realized that the Scotian was to fall a victim to the
circumstances that beset her, rather than as the result of a spirited
chase or a sharply fought battle. He looked about him for a moment, and
the instant he turned his head, Mulgrum came out from behind the mast,
and passed quite near him.

The captain could not tell whether the second lieutenant had spoken to
the deaf mute or not, but the latter hastened to the engine hatch, and
descended to the engine room. The Bronx was within less than a cable's
length of the Scotian, whose name could now be read on her stern, when
Mulgrum, apparently ordered by Lillyworth to do so, had hastened to the
engine hatch. Even on the bridge the noise of a scuffle could be heard
in the engine room, and the captain was sure that Sampson had been
obedient to his orders. Another minute or two would determine in what
manner the Scotian was to be captured, and Christy hastened down the
ladder to the deck.

As soon as his foot pressed the planks, he hastened to the engine hatch.
Calling to the engineer, he learned that the deaf mute had been knocked
senseless by Sampson, and lay on the sofa. He waited to hear no more,
but went forward where there were bell pulls on the deck, and rang two
bells to stop her. Then he gave some orders to the quartermaster, and
rang three bells to back her. The Bronx came alongside of the Scotian
as handsomely as though she had been a river steamer making one of
her usual landings. The hands who had been stationed for the purpose
immediately used their grappling irons, and the two vessels were fast
to each other.

"Boarders!--" the first lieutenant shouted at a sign from the captain;
but before he could complete the order, Pawcett, for we may now call him
by his right name, leaped on the bulwarks of the Bronx.

"This is a United States"--he began to say, but he was allowed to
proceed no farther, for the first lieutenant raised the revolver he
carried in his left hand, doubtless for this very purpose, and fired.

Pawcett did not utter another word, but fell back upon the deck of the
Bronx; where no one took any further notice of him.

"Boarders, away!" shouted the first lieutenant.

This time the sentence was finished, and the order was promptly
executed. Hardly a half minute had been lost by the attempt of Pawcett
to prepare the officers of the Scotian to do their duty; but he had said
enough to enable the ship's company to understand what he would have
said if he had finished his announcement. The officers and seamen were
both surprised, and there was a panic among the latter, though the
former rallied them in a moment. But they had lost all their chances,
and after an insignificant struggle, the deck of the steamer was in
possession of the boarders. The crew were driven forward by the
victorious "Bronxies" as Giblock called them. "Do you surrender?"
said Mr. Baskirk to the officer he took for the captain.

"I do not see that I have any other alternative," replied the commander
of the Scotian, politely enough, but it was evident that he was sorely
afflicted, and even ashamed of himself. "I understand now that I am the
victim of a Yankee trick."

"Allow me to introduce you to Captain Passford, commander of the United
States steamer Bronx," continued Mr. Baskirk, as Christy came on board
of the prize.

The captain of the Scotian retreated a pace as Christy stepped up
in front of him, and gracefully lifted his cap to the unfortunate
commander.

"I beg your pardon, sir, but did I understand you to say that this young
gentleman is the commander of the steamer alongside?" demanded the
captain, looking at Christy from head to foot.

"He is the commander, sir; Captain Passford," added Baskirk.

"May I be allowed to ask whom I have the honor to address?" Christy
began, lifting his cap again, as did the other also.

"Captain Dinsmore, at your service."

"I sincerely regret your personal misfortune while I rejoice at the
result of this action, as a loyal citizen of the United States," replied
Christy.

Then he invited the captain to his cabin.




CHAPTER XV

THE SCOTIAN BECOMES THE OCKLOCKONEE


As he went to the deck of the Bronx, the young commander sent the first
lieutenant on board of the prize to superintend the arrangements for
disposing of the ship's company. Captain Dinsmore was requested to
produce his papers, and Christy conducted him to his cabin. As his
father had advised him always to be on such occasions, he was studiously
polite, as in fact he was at all times. Whether the other captain was
usually so or not, he was certainly courteous in every respect, though,
with the heavy misfortune which had befallen him, it was vastly more
difficult for him to control his feelings, and conduct himself in a
gentlemanly manner. Captain Passford desired to understand in what
capacity the Scotian was approaching the American coast before he made
his final arrangements. After giving his guest, as he regarded him, or
rather treated him, a chair in his cabin, Christy called Dave, who had
followed him below.

"Will you excuse me a moment or two while I attend to a necessary duty?"
said he, turning to Captain Dinsmore, as he seated himself at the table.

"Certainly, captain; I am not so much in a hurry as I have been at other
times," replied the other with a rather sickly smile.

"Keep a sharp lookout for the Arran," Christy wrote on a piece of paper,
and handed it to the steward. "Give that to Mr. Flint."

Captain Passford had observed when he visited the deck of the Scotian
that she was well armed, and he had no doubt that her consort was
similarly provided for the business of war. It was therefore of the
highest importance that the Arran should not come unexpectedly upon the
Bronx at a time when she was hardly in condition to meet an enemy.

"Now, Captain Dinsmore, may I trouble you for your papers?" he
continued, turning to his guest, as he preferred to regard him.

"I admit your right to examine them under present circumstances,"
replied Captain Dinsmore, as he delivered the package to him.

"Perhaps we may simplify and abbreviate this examination to some extent,
sir, if you are so disposed," added Christy, as he looked the other full
in the face.

"I shall be happy to have you do so, Captain Passford," replied the
visitor in the cabin, with something like eagerness in his manner. "You
conduct yourself like a gentleman, sir, and I am not at all disposed to
embarrass you unnecessarily."

"Thank you, sir; I appreciate your courtesy."

"I am afraid it is not so much courtesy as it is desperation, for if I
should act in accordance with my feelings, I should blow my brains out
without any delay," said Captain Dinsmore. "I should not say as much as
this to any but a generous enemy; but I feel that I am ruined, and that
there is nothing more in the future for me."

Christy really sympathized with him, and could not help thinking how
he should feel if the situations were reversed. He realized that the
commander of the Scotian had been very careless in the discharge of
his duty in permitting any vessel to come alongside of her without
considering that she might be an enemy. This inefficiency was doubtless
the cause of his distress. Christy had kept uppermost in his mind the
advice of his father at the last moment before he sailed, and he asked
himself if, while the prisoner was thus exciting his sympathy and
compassion, the latter was not expecting the Arran would appear and
reverse the fortunes of war.

"I am sorry you take such a severe view of your situation," added the
captain of the Bronx. "But my first duty is to ascertain the character
of the vessel which you surrender."

"You shall have no doubt in regard to that, Captain Passford," answered
the commander of the Scotian, proudly. "I am not a dickering merchant,
trying to make money out of the situation of my country. The Scotian,
as you call her, is the Confederate steamer Ocklockonee, and here is my
commission as a lieutenant in the Confederate Navy," he added as he took
the document from his pocket and tendered it to his captor.

Christy looked at the paper, and then examined the other papers in
the packet. They left no doubt in his mind as to the character of the
Ocklockonee, if he had had any before. He folded up the commission and
politely returned it to the owner. The examination was completed so far
as he was concerned; but Captain Dinsmore did not seem to be satisfied,
though he made no complaint that anything was wrong in the proceedings.
He was evidently a very proud and high-strung man, and appeared to be
unable to reconcile himself to the situation.

"I am a ruined man!" he exclaimed several times; and when he looked at
the commander of the Bronx, measuring him from head to foot, as he had
already done several times, it seemed to increase his distress of mind,
and make him more nervous than before.

"While I regret that a brave man like yourself, captain, should be at
war with the government which I honor and love, I hope that personally
your future will be as bright as I am sure your merit deserves," said
Christy.

"If it had been a square and well-fought action, I should not feel
as I do about it. You will pardon me, and understand that I mean no
disrespect to you, captain, but I look upon myself as the victim of a
Yankee trick," said Captain Dinsmore, bitterly. "But please to consider
that I do not charge any blame or treachery upon you, sir."

"I think I can understand your feelings, sir; but I cannot see that in
resorting to strategy to save my men, my conduct has been in any manner
dishonorable," replied Christy, holding his head a little higher than
usual. "I should hold that I had been guilty of misconduct if I had
failed to take advantage of the circumstances under which I have
captured the Ocklockonee."

"I quite agree with you, Captain Passford. I should have done the same
thing myself if the opportunity had been presented to me," the guest
hastened to say. "But that does not in the least degree relieve me from
the consequences of my own negligence. When you are more at leisure,
I hope you will permit me to make an explanation of the situation in
which I was placed."

"I shall be happy to listen to anything you may desire to say to me when
I have the leisure to hear you."

"Thank you, sir."

Christy hastened on deck to attend to the many duties required of him.
The first sight that presented itself when he reached the head of the
companion way was the form of the second lieutenant, which remained as
it had fallen from the rail. He sent for Dr. Spokely, and directed him
to ascertain whether or not Pawcett was dead. While the surgeon was
examining him, Mr. Sampson came up from below with a bolt in his hand,
and touched his cap to the commander.

"You are at work on the engine of the Ocklockonee, are you?" asked
Christy, and this inquiry was one of the duties which had been on his
mind before he left the cabin.

"Yes, sir; and I have already examined her engine; I suppose you mean
the Scotian, for that is the name on her stern, they tell me," replied
the chief engineer.

"Her new name is the Ocklockonee."

"I have examined the engine," replied Sampson.

"Is the damage very serious?" asked the captain anxiously.

"Far from it; she has broken a bolt which disables her, and she ought to
have had one to replace it without more than five minutes' delay, but it
appears that they have not one on board; at least none could be found
when it was wanted, and they were at work forging one when the Bronx
came alongside."

"All right; repair the damage as soon as possible. I heard a scuffle in
the engine room just as we were running alongside the Ocklockonee," said
the captain, looking inquiringly at the engineer.

"Yes, sir; there was a scuffle there. Pink Mulgrum was rushing down the
ladder when I stopped him. He tried to push by me when I made signs to
him to return to the deck. Then he gave a spring at my throat, and as I
saw that he had a revolver in his hand, I did not hesitate to hit him on
the head with a bar of iron I had in my hand. He dropped on the deck.
I put his revolver in my pocket, and stretched him out on the sofa.
He did not move, and I left him there."

"I will send the surgeon to him," added the captain, as he went on board
of the prize, followed by Sampson.

The first lieutenant had been busy on the deck of the vessel, but
he had been able to accomplish but little in the absence of definite
instructions from the captain. All the seamen were held in the forward
part of the deck, and there were twenty-four of them, including the
petty officers, but not the stokers, as the firemen were called. The
engineers and all connected with their department remained below so far
as could be learned. Two officers remained seated on the quarter deck;
but they did not appear to be so thoroughly cast down as the captain,
doubtless because they were not called upon to bear the responsibility
of the capture.

"Have you set a sharp lookout, Mr. Flint?" asked the captain.

"The lookout remains the same on board of the Bronx, though I have
cautioned the quartermaster on the fore yard to keep his eyes wide open;
and I have stationed four men on board of the Scotian."

"Very well; we are all right so far; but if the other vessel is as well
armed as this one she is capable of giving us a great deal of trouble,"
replied the captain.

"I only hope we may find her," added Flint heartily.

"We shall look for her at any rate. But we must get things regulated on
board of both vessels at once, for I judge that the Arran cannot be far
off, for the officers hailed us as the Arran when we were approaching,
which shows that they were confident in regard to her identity, or they
would not have given themselves away so readily."

"We have made a lucky hit, and I hope we shall be able to reap the full
benefit of it," added Flint.

"We must provide for the immediate future without any delay," continued
Christy. "Our first duty will be to search for the Arran, and we can use
the Ocklockonee, which the captain says is her present name, to assist
in the chase, for we have force enough to man both vessels, though we
are not oversupplied with officers."

"There are two more quartermasters who are nearly as good men as
Baskirk," replied the first lieutenant.

"I ask no better officer than Baskirk has proved himself to be. I shall
retain him on board of the Bronx, and for the present I shall ask you to
take command of the Ocklockonee; and you may select your own officers.
The probability is that, if we find the Arran, we shall have a fight
with her."

"Then I shall make McSpindle my first lieutenant, and Luffard my
second," added Flint, evidently pleased with the idea of having even
a temporary command.

"I shall appoint Baskirk in your place on board of the Bronx; but I need
one more."

"I recommend Amblen, though he is not as well qualified as the others I
have named."

"Send for these men at once," added the captain.

One of them was on the topsail yard of the Bronx, but all of them soon
appeared in the waist of the prize. They were informed of the honor
which had been conferred upon them, and were immediately assigned to
duty. The crew of the Ocklockonee were divided between the two steamers,
and were put under guard below.




CHAPTER XVI

CAPTAIN PASSFORD'S FINAL ORDERS


A tolerable state of order and regularity had been brought out of the
confusion that prevailed on board of the Ocklockonee, and the newly
appointed officers went to the stations where they belonged. Sampson
reported the engine of the steamer as in good order, and ready for
service.

"Who is the chief engineer of the Ocklockonee, Mr. Sampson?" asked
Captain Passford, after he had listened to the report.

"His name is Bockburn; he is a Scotchman, and appears to be a very good
fellow," replied the engineer of the Bronx.

"Does he talk at all about what has just happened on board of his
steamer?" asked the captain, deeply interested, for he had some
difficulty in arranging the engineer's department on board of the
prize, as he considered the new order of things.

"Yes, sir; he talks at the rate of twenty knots an hour, and if his
steamer can get ahead as well as his tongue, she is a fast one," replied
Sampson, laughing.

"Well, what does he say? I want to know how he stands affected by the
present condition of affairs," continued the captain rather impatiently,
for he was too busy to enjoy the humor of the engineer.

"He is a thrifty Scotchman; and I don't believe he has any interest in
anything under the sun except his wages; and he is a little sour on that
account to find that his cruise is finished, as he puts it."

"Send for him and his assistants, Mr. Sampson."

The engineer went to the engine hatch, and called the men below.

"Now send for Mr. Gawl," added the captain. "He is your first assistant;
is he a competent man to run an engine?"

"As competent as I am myself; and the engine of this steamer is exactly
like that of the Bronx, so that he can have no trouble with it, if you
think of retaining him on board of the Ocklockonee," replied Sampson.

"I propose to make him chief engineer of her."

"You could not find a better man," said Sampson, as he went to summon
Gawl.

The three engineers of the prize came on deck, and the captain took the
chief aside.

"Mr. Bockburn, I believe, the chief engineer of the Ocklockonee?" said
Christy.

"Of the Scotian, sir; for I know nothing of the jaw-cracking names
that the officers in the cabin have given her," replied the engineer,
shrugging his shoulders, and presenting a dissatisfied air.

"Are you an engineer in the Confederate Navy, sir?" asked Christy,
bringing the business to a head at once.

"No, sir, I am not," answered the engineer very decidedly. "You see,
captain, that the Scotian was sold to come across the water, and I was
out of a job, with a family to support. They did not say anything about
the service in which the Scotian was to be engaged, but I understood it.
When they spoke to me about it, I was glad to keep my place as long as
she did not make war on the United Kingdom. In truth, I may say that I
did not care a fig about the quarrel in the States, and was as ready to
run an engine on one side as the other as long as I got my wages, and
was able to support my family handsomely, as, thank God, I have always
done. I am not a student of politics, and I only read enough in the
newspapers to know what is going on in the world. I always find that I
get ahead better when I mind my own business, and it can't be said that
Andy Bockburn ever--"

"Precisely so, Mr. Bockburn; but I will hear the rest of your story at
another time," interposed the captain when he found that the man was
faithful to the description Sampson had given of his talking powers.

"You understand perfectly what has transpired on board of the Scotian
as you choose still to call her; in a word, that she is a prize to the
United States steamer Bronx?"

"I understand it all as clearly as though I read it in a book; and it
was all on account of the want of a bolt that I was sure I put on board
of the vessel before she sailed; and I am just as sure of it now as I
ever was. But then, you see, captain, a man can't always be sure of the
men under him, though he may be sure of himself. I have no doubt--"

"Short yarns, if you please, Mr. Bockburn. You understand the situation,
and I will add that I intend to use this vessel as well as the Bronx in
the service of my government. Are you willing to do duty on board of her
in any capacity in which I may place you in the engineer department,
provided you receive the same wages as before?"

"I am, sir; and I was paid a month in advance, so that I shall not lose
anything," chuckled the careful Scotchman.

"If you are regularly appointed, though I can only give you a temporary
position, in addition to your wages, you will be entitled to your share
in any prize we may hereafter capture."

"Then I will take any position you will please to give me," answered the
engineer, apparently delighted with the prospect thus held out to him.

"I shall appoint you first assistant engineer of the Bronx," continued
the captain, not a little to the astonishment of Flint, who wondered
that he was not assigned to the Ocklockonee.

"I am quite satisfied, captain," replied Bockburn, bowing and smiling,
for wages were more than rank to him. "I will bring up my kit at once,
sir. You see, captain, when a man has a family he--"

"Precisely as you say, Mr. Bockburn," interrupted the captain. "You
will report to Mr. Sampson in the engine room of the Bronx for further
orders."

"Thank you, sir; I supposed I was out of a job from this out, and I was
feeling--"

"Feel your way to the engine room of the Bronx. Mr. Gawl," the captain
proceeded.

"On duty, sir," replied the first assistant engineer of the Bronx,
touching his cap as respectfully as though the commander had been forty
years old.

"You are appointed temporarily as chief engineer of the Ocklockonee, and
you will take your place in the engine room as soon as possible," said
the captain, as brusquely as though favors cost nothing.

Mr. Gawl was taken to the engine room and introduced to the first and
second assistants, Rowe and Leeds, and was kindly received by them,
for, like their late chief, the question of wages was the only one that
affected them. They promised to be faithful to the government they were
to serve, and to discharge their duties faithfully under the direction
of the new chief. The two officers on the quarter deck had watched all
these proceedings with interest. They were the only persons remaining on
board who had not been disposed of in some manner.

Christy approached them while Captain Flint, as he was now to be called
by courtesy, was making his final arrangements with the crew that had
been assigned to the prize. Both of the officers bowed civilly to the
commander as he presented himself on the quarter deck. They were older
men than Captain Dinsmore, though neither was over forty-five. Christy
suspected that they were not Confederate officers as soon as he had a
chance to look them over.

"May I ask, gentlemen, if you are officers of the Confederate Navy?"
asked Christy, as he looked from one to the other of the men.

"We are not, sir," replied the senior of them.

"Of course you are aware that you are serving in a Confederate
man-of-war?" added Christy.

"I should say that was hardly true up to date. The captain holds a
commission in the Confederate Navy, but the ship has never been into a
Confederate port, Captain Passford," replied the senior, who had learned
the commander's name.

"As you call me by name, perhaps you will enable me to do as much with
you," added Christy.

"My name is Farley Lippard; I shipped as first officer of the Scotian,"
replied the senior.

"And mine is Edward Sangston; and I shipped as second officer of the
steamer."

"We shipped only for the voyage, and were told that we could not retain
our situations after the ship's company was fully organized," added Mr.
Lippard.

"Then I hope you were paid in advance, as the engineers were," said
Christy with a smile.

"We were, sir, thank you," added the first officer. "Though we were told
that we could not obtain any rank in the navy because there were more
officers than ships, the agent said we should find plenty of employment
on board of blockade runners coming out with cotton."

"I suppose you are Englishmen?" said the captain.

"Scotchmen, sir, but British subjects."

"I cannot put you on shore and I may not have an opportunity to ship
you to your homes by another vessel. I shall leave you on board of the
Ocklockonee, and the acting commander will assign to you such quarters
in the cabin as may be at his command," continued Christy. "It is only
necessary that I should say I expect you to remain neutral, whatever
occurs on board of the steamer."

"That is understood," replied Mr. Lippard.

"You will be regarded as passengers; but of course if you commit any act
hostile to the government of the United States, you will be considered
as enemies, and treated as prisoners of war," Christy proceeded. "I hope
the situation is clearly understood."

"Certainly, sir; we have no interest in the quarrel in the States, and
we are not in the pay of the Confederacy, as they call it," replied Mr.
Lippard.

"Then there will be no trouble. Captain Flint," called the commander.

Flint, who had been very busy appointing petty officers and organizing
the new crew, came at the call and was introduced to the late officers
of the prize. The understanding which had just been reached in regard to
them was repeated for the benefit of the new captain. He was quite as
pliable as his superior had always been, and there was no indication
that any friction would result from their presence on board of the
prize, now temporarily put into the service of the navy.

"Have you made all your arrangements, Captain Flint?" asked Christy when
he was all ready to return to the Bronx.

"I have very nearly completed them, Captain Passford; and I can easily
finish them after we get under way," replied Flint. "All I need before
we part is my orders."

"From all that I can learn, the Arran must be to the eastward of the
Ocklockonee," said Christy, who had given this subject all the thought
his time would permit. "The officers of the prize hailed the Bronx
coming from that direction, and that indicates that she was expected
from that quarter. Our coming from that way seems to have made Captain
Dinsmore confident that the Bronx was the Arran. I shall lay the course
of my ship to the northeast, while you will proceed to the southwest.
After you have gone fifty miles in that direction, you will make a
course due east, as I shall also after I have made the same distance.
Having run due east twenty miles, you will run to the northeast, as I
shall to the southwest. If you discover the Arran fire your midship gun,
and I will do the same."

Christy shook hands with Flint, and went on board of the Bronx. The
order was given on board of both vessels to cast off the grapnels; the
gong bell sounded in each engine room, and both vessels went ahead, the
Bronx coming about to her new course.




CHAPTER XVII

A COUPLE OF ASTONISHED CONSPIRATORS


The fog had been very variable in its density, and had been lifting and
settling at times during the day of the capture. By the time the two
vessels were ready to get under way, it had become more solid than
before. The night had come, and the darkness with it, at about the same
time. The lookouts were still in their places; but so far as seeing
anything was concerned they might as well have been in the hold. If the
Arran was still in the vicinity, as no doubt she was, the Bronx might
run into her. Wherever she was, it was well assured that her officers
knew nothing of the capture of the Ocklockonee, for not a great gun had
been discharged, and the combat had been so quickly decided that there
had been very little noise of any kind.

Everything worked without friction on board of the Bronx; and Captain
Passford felt even more elastic than usual. Doubtless the capture he had
just made afforded him a good deal of inspiration; but the fact that the
mystery of the deaf mute and the second lieutenant had been solved, and
the unfathomable catastrophe which their presence on board threatened
had been escaped was a great source of relief.

The two conspirators were disabled and confined to the sick bay, and
they were not likely to make any trouble at present. If they had had any
definite plan on which they intended to act, they had certainly lost
their opportunities, for the visit of Hungerford to the engine room of
the Bronx, no doubt for the purpose of disabling the machinery, and the
effort of Pawcett to warn the officers of the prize, had been simply
acts of desperation, adopted after they had evidently failed in every
other direction.

Pawcett was not really a loyal officer, and his expression and
manners had attracted the attention of both the captain and the first
lieutenant. The deaf mute had been brought on board in order to obtain
information, and he had been very diligent in carrying out his part of
the programme. As Christy thought the matter over, seated at his supper
in his cabin, he thought he owed more to the advice of his father at
their parting than to anything else. He had kept his own counsel in
spite of the difficulties, and had done more to blind the actors in the
conspiracy than to enlighten them. He had hoped before he parted with
the prize for the present to obtain some information in regard to the
Arran; but he had too much self-respect to ask the officers of the
Ocklockonee in regard to such matters.

The seamen who had been spotted as adherents of the late second
lieutenant had done nothing, for there had been nothing that they could
do under the circumstances. Spoors and two others of them had been
drafted into the other vessel, while the other three remained on board
of the Bronx. They were not regarded as very dangerous enemies, and they
were not in condition to undertake anything in the absence of their
leaders.

Christy had inquired in regard to the condition of Pawcett and
Hungerford before he went to his cabin, and Dr. Spokeley informed him
that neither of them would be in condition to do duty on either side for
a considerable period. They were in no danger under careful treatment,
but both of them were too seriously injured to trouble their heads with
any exciting subjects.

"Good evening, Captain Dinsmore," Christy said, when he went into his
cabin, after he had attended to all the duties that required present
attention. "I hope you are feeling better this evening."

"Hardly better, Captain Passford, though I am trying to reconcile myself
to my situation," replied the late captain of the Ocklockonee.

"Supper is all ready, sir," interposed Dave, as he passed by the
captain, after he had brought in the dishes from the galley.

"Take a seat at the table, Captain Dinsmore," continued Christy, placing
a chair for him, and looking over the table to see what cheer he had to
offer to his guest.

It looked as though the cook, aware that the commander had a guest, or
thinking that he deserved a better supper than usual after the capture
of a prize, had done his best in honor of the occasion. The broiled
chickens looked especially inviting, and other dishes were quite
tempting to a man who was two hours late at the meal.

"Thank you, captain," replied the guest, as he took the seat assigned
to him. "I can't say that I have a very fierce appetite after the
misfortune that has befallen me; but I am none the less indebted to
you for your courtesy and kindness."

"I acknowledge that I am in condition to be very happy this evening,
Captain Dinsmore, and I can hardly expect to be an agreeable companion
to one with a burden on his mind; but I can assure you of my personal
sympathy."

"You are very kind, captain. I should like to ask if many of the
officers of the old navy are young gentlemen like yourself?" inquired
the guest, looking at his host very curiously.

"There are a great many young officers in the navy at the present time,
for the exigency has pushed forward the older ones, and there are not
enough of them to take all the positions. But we shall all of us grow
older," replied Christy good-naturedly, as he helped the officer to a
piece of the chicken, which had just come from the galley fire.

"Perhaps you are older than you appear to be," suggested the guest.
"I should judge that you were not over twenty, or at least not much
more."

"I am eighteen, sir, though, unlike a lady, I try to make myself as old
as I can."

"Eighteen!" exclaimed Captain Dinsmore.

But Christy told something of his experience on board of the Bellevite
which had prepared him for his duties, and his case was rather
exceptional.

"You have physique enough for a man of twenty-five," added the guest.
"And you have been more fortunate than I have."

"And I have been as unfortunate as you are, for I have seen the inside
of a Confederate prison, though I concluded not to remain there for any
length of time," added Christy, laughing.

"You are a fortunate young man, and I do not belong to that class,"
said Captain Dinsmore, shaking his head. "I have lost my steamer, and
I suppose that will finish my career."

"Perhaps not;" but Christy was satisfied that he had lost his vessel by
a want of care, and he could not waste any compliments upon him, though
he had profited by the other's carelessness.

"I was confident when the Bronx approached the Ocklockonee that she was
another vessel," continued the guest.

"What vessel did you take her to be?"

"You will excuse me if I decline to go into particulars. I can only say
that I was sure your steamer was another, and I had no suspicion that I
was wrong till that man mounted the rail of the Bronx, and began to tell
us to the contrary," replied Captain Dinsmore. "A bolt in the engine was
broken, and the engineer could not find another on board. We expected to
obtain one when the Bronx approached us. I was deceived; and that is the
reason why I am here instead of in the cabin of my own ship."

The guest seemed to feel a little better after he had made this
explanation, though it contained nothing new to the commander of the
Bronx. Possibly the excellent supper, of which he had partaken heartily
in spite of his want of appetite, had influenced his mind through the
body. He had certainly become more cheerful, though his burden was no
lighter than when he came on board of the Bronx. Christy was also
light-hearted, not alone because he had been so successful, but because
he felt that he was no longer compelled to watch the conspirators.

"I am sorry to be obliged to impose any restrictions upon you, Captain
Dinsmore," said Christy, as he rose from the supper table. "The
circumstances compel me to request you to remain in my cabin."

"Of course I am subject to your will and pleasure, Captain Passford,"
replied the guest.

"You are a gentleman, sir, and if you will simply give me your word to
remain here, there will be no occasion for any unpleasantness. It is
possible that we may go into action at any time; and in that case you
can remain where you please below."

"I give you my word that I will remain below until I notify you of
my intention to do otherwise," replied the prisoner, though Christy
preferred to regard him as his guest.

"I am entirely satisfied. I shall be obliged to berth you in the ward
room, and you are at liberty to pass your time as you please in these
two apartments. I shall be happy to introduce you to the first
lieutenant," added the captain, as he led the way to the ward room.

Mr. Baskirk received the prisoner very politely, a berth was assigned
to him, and Christy went on deck. It was as dark as Egypt there, but Mr.
Amblen, the new acting second lieutenant, on the bridge, said the wind
was hauling to the westward, and he thought there would be a change of
weather before morning. Mr. Baskirk had made all his appointments of
petty officers rendered necessary by sending a portion of the seamen to
the Ocklockonee. Everything was in good order on deck, and Christy next
went down to the sick bay, where Hungerford and Pawcett were the only
occupants. He found Dr. Spokeley there, and inquired in regard to the
condition of the wounded men. The surgeon described the wounds of his
patients, and pointed them out to the captain.

"Does Mr. Hungerford talk any now?" asked Christy.

"Who is Mr. Hungerford?" asked the doctor.

"He is the deaf mute. He was the first officer of the Confederate
steamer Yazoo when we captured her in the Bellevite last year," replied
the captain, upon whom the eyes of the wounded man were fixed all the
time.

"He has not spoken yet in my hearing, though I have thought that he
could hear."

"His duty on board of the Bronx was to obtain information, and he
procured a good deal of it, though not all of it was as reliable as
it might have been."

"Indeed! Then he was a traitor," added the surgeon.

"He is a gentleman in spite of the role he has been playing, and I am
sorry he has been injured, though Mr. Sampson obeyed my order when he
struck him down in the engine room."

"Struck me from behind like an assassin," added Hungerford feebly.

"Did you expect to arrange a duel with him at such a time, Mr.
Hungerford?" asked Christy. "You went into the engine room to disable
the machine when you found you could do nothing else. If you had
returned to the deck when the engineer told you to do so, he would not
have disabled you. You crowded past him, and then he did his duty."

"I have been in the habit of serving with men who were square and above
board," muttered Hungerford.

"Was that where you learned to listen at my cabin door, and to conceal
yourself under the berth in my state room?" asked Christy, rather
sharply for him. "Is that the reason why Mr. Pawcett wished to have
you do the copying of my papers?"

"I can only say that I tried to do my duty to my country and I have
failed," added Hungerford, as he turned over in his berth, and showed
his back to the captain.

"May I ask, Captain Passford, who told you my name?" asked the late
second lieutenant, who seemed to be confounded by what he had heard.

"You called Mr. Hungerford by his real name, and he called you by yours,
in the interview you had with him the first night out from New York.
I have known you from the first," replied Christy.

Pawcett was as disgusted as the other had been, and he turned his face
to the ceiling of his berth. Christy was satisfied that these men would
give him no more trouble at present.




CHAPTER XVIII

A TRIANGULAR ACTION WITH GREAT GUNS


When Mr. Baskirk went on deck to take his watch at midnight, the fog
had disappeared, and a fresh breeze was blowing from the westward. This
change was reported to the captain, and he went on deck. No sail had
been seen since the fog cleared off, and Christy returned to his state
room, where he was soon asleep again. He was called, as he had directed,
at four in the morning, but no change in the weather was reported, and
no sail had been seen.

At four bells in the morning watch two sails were reported to him, one
dead ahead, and the other on the port beam. He hastened to the deck, and
found Mr. Amblen using his spyglass, and trying to make out the distant
sails. The one at the northeast of the Bronx was making a long streak of
black smoke on the sky, and there was no such appearance over the other.
Both were steamers.

"The one ahead of us is the Ocklockonee," said Captain Passford, after
he had used the spyglass. "I have no doubt the other is the Arran.
Probably she has a new name by this time, but I have not heard it yet.
Pass the word for Mr. Ambleton."

This was the gunner, and he was directed to fire a single shot, blank,
from the midship gun. This was immediately done, and was the signal
agreed upon with Flint if either discovered the Arran. It was promptly
answered by a similar discharge on board of the Ocklockonee, indicating
that she had seen the steamer in question.

"Now, make her course southeast, Mr. Amblen," said Christy, after the
two signals had been made.

"Southeast, sir," responded the second lieutenant, giving the course to
the quartermaster at the wheel.

The commander of the Ocklockonee changed his course as soon as the Bronx
had done so. Both steamers were headed directly towards the sail in the
southeast, and both were running for the apex of the triangle where the
third steamer was located.

The captain visited every part of the vessel, and gave orders to have
breakfast served at once, for he expected there would be lively times
before many hours. Everything was overhauled, and put in order. At eight
bells, when Mr. Baskirk took the deck, the captain did not care how soon
the battle began. Everything was ready and waiting, and he went below
for his breakfast.

From delicacy or some other motive Captain Dinsmore spent most of
his time in the ward room; but he was called to breakfast with the
commander. Both captains were as polite to each other as they had been
the evening before, but it was evident to Christy that his guest was
quite uneasy, as though he had discovered what had transpired on deck;
and the movements there were quite enough to inform him without a word
from any one. He had not asked a question of any person on board; and it
was impossible for him to know that a sail supposed to be the Arran was
in sight.

"I have heard some firing this morning, Captain Passford," said he as he
seated himself at the table, and watched the expression of his host's
countenance.

"Merely a couple of signals; the distant shot came from the
Ocklockonee," replied Christy lightly.

"I thought it possible that you had fallen in with another steamer,"
added the guest.

"I have considered it more than possible, and within the limits of
probability, that we should fall in with another steamer ever since we
ran so opportunely upon the Scotian, as she was formerly called."

"Opportunely for you, but very inopportunely for me," added Captain
Dinsmore with a faint smile.

"I am happy to inform you that we have passed beyond both possibility
and probability, and come into the region of fact," continued Christy.

"Then you have made out a sail?" asked the guest anxiously.

"We have; a steamer on our port beam; and I am reasonably confident it
is the vessel you supposed was coming alongside the Ocklockonee last
evening."

"Indeed?" added the guest, as though he did not know just what to say,
and did not mean to commit himself.

"In other words, I am almost sure this steamer is the Arran, though
doubtless you have changed her name," said Christy, as he helped the
other from the choicest dish on the table.

"The Arran?" repeated Captain Dinsmore, manifesting but not expressing
his surprise that his companion in a different service from his own knew
this name.

"Perhaps you can give me her later name, as I have no doubt she is or
will be called after some southern river, which is quite proper, and
entirely patriotic. Perhaps she is called the Perdido, which is not
very far from Perdition, where I shall do my best to send her unless she
surrenders within a reasonable time, or runs away from me," said Captain
Passford lightly. "Is your coffee quite right, Captain Dinsmore?"

"It is very good indeed, captain, thank you."

"Perhaps it is too strong for you, like the United States Navy, and you
would prefer it weaker," suggested Christy.

"It is quite right as it is, and, like the United States Navy of which
you speak, it will be used up in a short time," replied the guest as
pleasantly as the captain of the Bronx.

"That is yet to be settled," laughed Christy.

"Well, captain, the coffee is settled, and that is more than can be said
of our navy, which will be as clear as this in due time."

"I thought it best to inform you that we might be in action in the
course of a couple of hours, and you were to notify me in case you
wished to change your status on board," added Christy more seriously.

"I am much obliged to you, Captain Passford, for your courtesy and
kindness, but I see no reason to change my position. I will still
confine myself to the cabin and ward room. I cannot wish you success in
the action in which you are about to engage, for it would break my heart
to have the Arran, as you call her, captured," added the guest.

"I think you may fairly count upon such a result," replied Christy
confidently.

"You must excuse me, Captain Passford, but I think you are reckoning
without your host, and therein your youth makes its only manifestation,"
said the guest, shaking his head. "I can only say that, when you are a
prisoner on board of the Escambia, I shall do my best to have you as
handsomely treated as I have been in your cabin."

"Thank you, captain; I assure you I shall appreciate any courtesy and
kindness extended to me. The Escambia is her name then. That is not so
near Perdition as the word I suggested, and I am glad it is not so long
as the name you gave the Scotian. I shall expect to come across an
Apalachicola in due time. They are all very good names, but we shall be
compelled to change them when they fall into our hands," said Christy.

"I have plenty of spare time on my hands just now, and perhaps I had
better think up a new name for the Bronx; and Apalachicola would be as
good as any other. I wonder you did not call her the Nutcracker, for her
present name rather suggests that idea."

"I have heard a similar remark before; but she is not big enough for
such a long name as the one you suggest, and you would have to begin
to pronounce it before breakfast in order to get it out before the dog
watches," said Christy, as he rose from the table and went on deck.

The first thing he noticed when he came on the bridge was that the
Ocklockonee was headed to intercept the Bronx. Captain Flint signalled
that he wished to speak to him, and he changed his course to comply with
the request. At the end of another hour they came together, the Arran
being still at least four miles distant, going very slowly if she was
moving at all.

Christy had written out his orders for Captain Flint in full. So far
as he had been able to judge of the speed of the other steamer, it
appeared to be about the same as that of the Bronx. He had directed the
Ocklockonee to get to the southward of the Arran. A boat was sent to her
with the orders, and Flint immediately proceeded to obey them. The Bronx
slowed down her engines to enable the other to gain her position; but
the Arran did not seem to be willing to permit her to do this, and gave
chase to her at once.

The commander of the Bronx met this change by one on his own part, and
went ahead with all the speed he could get out of her. The Confederate
steamer was farther to the eastward than either of the other two, and
after the changes of position which Christy had brought about in
speaking the Ocklockonee, the Arran was nearly southeast of both of the
others. Flint went directly to the south, and Christy ran for the enemy.

All hands had been beaten to quarters on board of the Bronx, and the
captain was on the bridge, watching with the most intense interest the
progress of the other two vessels. It was soon apparent to him that
the Ocklockonee could not get into the position to which she had been
ordered under present circumstances, for the enemy was giving his whole
attention to her.

"There goes a gun from the enemy!" exclaimed Mr. Amblen, as a puff of
smoke rose from the forward deck of the Arran.

"The shot struck in the water," added Christy a moment later; "but the
two vessels are within range. There is the first shot from the
Ocklockonee! Captain Flint is not asleep."

The firing was done on both vessels with the heavy midship guns, and
doubtless the calibre of the pieces was the same; but Flint was the more
fortunate of the two, for his shot struck the smokestack of the enemy,
or partly upset it. Christy thought it was time for him to take a hand
in the game, and he ordered the midship gun to be fired, charged as it
was with a solid shot. The gunner aimed the piece himself, and the shot
was seen to tear up the water alongside of the enemy. He discharged the
piece four times more with no better result. Evidently he had not got
the hang of the gun, though he was improving at every trial.

Three steamers were rushing towards each other with all the fury steam
could give them, for the overthrow of the funnel of the enemy did not
disable her, though it probably diminished the draught of her furnaces.
Through the glass it could be seen that they were making an effort to
restore the fallen smokestack to its position. All three of the steamers
were delivering the fire of their midship guns very regularly, though
with little effect, the distance was so great. The gunner of the Bronx
was evidently greatly nettled at the number of solid shots he had
wasted, though the gun of the Ocklockonee had done little better so far
as could be seen. The three vessels were not much more than half a mile
from each other, and the enemy had begun to use his broadside guns.

"Good!" shouted Mr. Amblen suddenly after the gunner had just let off
the great gun. "That shot overturned the midship piece of the Arran.
Ambleton has fully redeemed himself." The announcement of the effect of
this last shot sent up a volley of cheers from the crew.

The Bronx and her consort had set the American flag at the beginning of
the action, and the Confederate had promptly displayed her ensign, as
though she scorned to go into action without having it fully understood
what she was. She did not claim to be a blockade runner, and do her best
to escape, but "faced the music," even when she realized that she had
two enemies instead of one.

Christy had evidently inherited some of the naval blood on his mother's
side, and he was not satisfied with the slow progress of the action, for
the shots from the broadside guns of the enemy were beginning to tell
upon the Bronx, though she had received no serious injury. He caused the
signal to prepare to board to be set as agreed upon with Captain Flint.
The orders already given were to be carried out, and both vessels bore
down on the Arran with all speed.




CHAPTER XIX

ON THE DECK OF THE ARRAN


Captain Passford had carried out the programme agreed upon with Captain
Flint, and the latter had been working to the southward since the Bronx
came into the action, and as soon as the order to get ready to board
was given, the Ocklockonee went ahead at full speed, headed in that
direction. She had reached a position dead ahead of the Arran, so that
she no longer suffered from the shots of the latter's broadside guns,
and the Bronx was getting the entire benefit of them.

Both vessels had kept up a full head of steam, and the coal passers
were kept very busy at just this time. The Arran's midship gun had been
disabled so that she could not make any very telling shots, but her crew
had succeeded in righting her funnel, which had not gone entirely over,
but had been held by the stays. Yet it could be seen that there was a
big opening near the deck, for the smoke did not all pass through the
smokestack.

The broadside guns of the Arran were well served, and they were doing
considerable mischief on board of the Bronx. Christy was obliged to hold
back until her consort was in position to board the Arran on the port
hand, and he manoeuvred the steamer so as to receive as little damage
as possible from her guns. He was to board on the starboard hand of the
enemy, and he was working nearer to her all the time. Mr. Ambleton the
gunner had greatly improved his practice, and the commander was obliged
to check his enthusiasm, or there would have been nothing left of the
Arran in half an hour more. Christy considered the final result as fully
assured, for he did not believe the present enemy was any more heavily
manned than her consort had been, and he could throw double her force
upon her deck as soon as the two steamers were in position to do so.

"Are you doing all you can in the engine room, Mr. Sampson?" asked
Christy, pausing at the engine hatch.

"Everything, Captain Passford, and I think we must be making sixteen
knots," replied the chief engineer.

"Is Mr. Bockburn on duty?"

"He is, sir; and if he were a Connecticut Yankee he could not do any
better, or appear to be any more interested."

"He seems to be entirely impartial; all he wants is his pay, and he is
as willing to be on one side as the other if he only gets it," said
Christy. "Has any damage been done to the engine?"

"None at all, sir; a shot from one of those broadside guns went through
the side, and passed just over the top of one of the boilers," replied
the engineer. "Bockburn plugged the shot hole very skilfully, and said
it would not be possible for a shot to come in low enough to hit the
boilers. He knows all about the other two vessels, and has served as an
engineer on board of the Arran on the other side of the Atlantic."

Just at that moment a shot from the Arran struck the bridge and a
splinter from the structure knocked two men over. One of them picked
himself up, but said he was not much hurt, and refused to be sent below.
The other man was Veering; he seemed to be unable to get up, and was
carried down by order of the boatswain. This man was one of the
adherents of Hungerford and Pawcett, though so far he had been of no
service to them.

Christy hastened forward to ascertain the extent of the damage done to
the bridge. It was completely wrecked, and was no longer in condition to
be occupied by an officer. But the pilot house was still in serviceable
repair, and the quartermaster had not been disturbed. By this time, the
Ocklockonee had obtained a position on the port bow of the Arran, and
the commander directed the quartermaster at the wheel to run directly
for the other side of the enemy.

The time for decisive and final action had come. Mr. Baskirk placed
the boarders in position to be thrown on board of the Arran. He was
to command the first division himself, and Mr. Amblen the second. The
Ocklockonee was rushing at all the speed she could command to the work
before her.

  [Illustration: The captain of the Arran.]

For some reason not apparent the Arran had stopped her screw, though she
had kept in motion till now, doing her best to secure the most favorable
position for action. Possibly her commander believed a collision between
the vessels at a high rate of speed would be more fatal to him than
anything that could result from being boarded. It was soon discovered
that she was backing, and it was evident then that her captain had some
manoeuvre of his own in mind, though it was possible that he was only
doing something to counteract the effect of a collision. Doubtless he
thought the two vessels approaching him at such a rapid rate intended to
crush the Arran between them, and that they desired only to sink him.

He was not allowed many minutes more to carry out his policy, whatever
it was, for the Ocklockonee came up alongside of the Arran, the grapnels
were thrown out, and the whole boarding force of the steamer was hurled
upon her decks. But the commander was a plucky man, however he regarded
the chances for or against him, and his crew proceeded vigorously to
repel boarders. Christy had timed the movements of the Bronx very
carefully, and the Ocklockonee had hardly fastened to the Arran on
one side before he had his steamer grappled on the other.

"Boarders, away!" he shouted at the top of his lungs, and flourishing
his sword over his head, not however with the intention of going into
the fight himself, but as a demonstration to inspire the men.

Baskirk and Amblen rushed forward with cutlasses in their hands, leaping
upon the deck of the enemy. The crew was found to equal in numbers about
the force that the Ocklockonee had brought to bear upon them. The
boarders from the Bronx attacked them in the rear while they were fully
occupied with the boarders in front of them. The officers of the enemy
behaved with distinguished gallantry, and urged their men forward with
the most desperate enthusiasm. They struck hard blows, and several of
the boarders belonging to the consort had fallen, to say nothing of
wounds that did not entirely disable others. Some of the men belonging
to the Arran, doubtless shipped on the other side of the ocean or at the
Bermudas, were disposed to shirk their duty, though their officers held
them well up to the work.

One of the brave officers who had done the boarders a good deal of
mischief fell at a pistol shot from Mr. Amblen; this loss of his
leadership caused a sensible giving way on the part of his division, and
his men began to fall back. The other officers, including the captain,
who fought with a heavy cutlass, held out for a short time longer; but
Christy saw that it was slaughter.

The captain of the Arran was the next to go down, though he was not
killed. This event practically ended the contest for the deck of the
steamer. The boarders crowded upon the crew and drove them to the bow of
the vessel, where they yielded the deck, and submitted to the excess of
numbers.

"Don't butcher my men!" cried the captain of the Arran, raising himself
partially from his place where he had fallen. "I surrender, for we are
outnumbered two to one."

But the fighting had ceased forward. Mr. Baskirk was as earnest to save
any further slaughter as he had been to win the fight. Christy came on
board of the prize, not greatly elated at the victory, for it had been a
very unequal affair as to numbers. The Arran was captured; that was all
that could be said of it. She had been bravely defended; and the "honors
were even," though the fortunes of the day were against the Arran and
her ship's company.

"Allow me to introduce myself as the commander of the United States
steamer Bronx," said Christy, approaching the fallen captain of the
Arran. "I sincerely hope that you are not seriously injured, sir."

"Who under the canopy are you?" demanded the commander of the prize,
as he looked at the young officer with something like contempt in his
expression.

"I have just informed you who under the canopy I am," replied Christy,
not pleased with the manner of the other. "To be a little more definite,
I am Captain Christopher Passford, commander of the United States
steamer Bronx, of which the Arran appears to be a prize."

"The captain!" exclaimed the fallen man. "You are nothing but a boy!"

"But I am old enough to try to be a gentleman. You are evidently old
enough to be my father, though I have no comments to make," added
Christy.

"I beg your pardon, Captain Passford," said the captain of the Arran,
attempting to rise from the deck, in which he was assisted by Christy
and by Mr. Baskirk, who had just come aft. "I beg your pardon, Captain
Passford, for I did not understand what you said at first, and I did not
suspect that you were the captain."

"I hope you are not seriously injured, sir," added Christy.

"I don't know how seriously, but I have a cut on the hip, for which I
exchanged one on the head, parrying the stroke so that it took me below
the belt."

"Have you a surgeon on board, Captain ---- I have not the pleasure of
knowing your name, sir."

"Captain Richfield, lieutenant in the Confederate Navy. We have a
surgeon on board, and he is below attending to the wounded," replied
the captain.

"Allow me to assist you to your cabin, Captain Richfield," continued
Christy, as he and Baskirk each took one of the wounded officer's arms.

"Thank you, sir. I see that you have been doubly fortunate, Captain
Passford, and you have both the Escambia and the Ocklockonee. I did the
best I could to save my ship, but the day has gone against me."

"And no one could have done any more than you have done. Your ship has
been ably and bravely defended; but it was my good fortune to be able to
outnumber you both in ships and in men."

Captain Richfield was taken to his state room, and assisted into his
berth. A steward was sent for the surgeon, and Christy and his first
lieutenant retired from the cabin. The captured seamen of the Arran were
all sent below, and everything was done that the occasion required.

Christy asked Captain Flint to meet him in the cabin of the Bronx for a
consultation over the situation, for the sealed orders of the commander
had been carried out to the letter so far as the two expected steamers
were concerned, and it only remained to report to the flag officer of
the Eastern Gulf squadron. But with two prizes, and a considerable
number of prisoners, the situation was not without its difficulties.

"I hope you are quite comfortable, Captain Dinsmore," said Christy as he
entered his cabin, and found his guest reading at the table.

"Quite so, Captain Passford. I have heard a great deal of firing in the
last hour, and I am rather surprised to find that you are not a prisoner
on board of the Escambia, or perhaps you have come to your cabin for
your clothes," replied the guest cheerfully.

"I have not come on any such mission; and I have the pleasure of
informing you that the Confederate steamer Escambia is a prize to the
Bronx," replied Christy quite as cheerfully. "I am sorry to add that
Captain Richfield was wounded in the hip, and that Mr. Berwick, the
first lieutenant, was killed."

The Confederate officer leaped out of his chair astonished at the news.
He declared that he had confidently expected to be released by the
capture of the Bronx. Christy gave a brief review of the action; and
Captain Dinsmore was not surprised at the result when informed that the
Ocklockonee had taken part in the capture. The commander then requested
him to retire to the ward room, and Flint came in. They seated
themselves at the table, and proceeded to figure up their resources and
consider what was to be done. Mr. Baskirk was then sent for to assist in
the conference.




CHAPTER XX

THE NEW COMMANDER OF THE BRONX


"Captain Flint, the first question to be settled is in regard to the
engineer force," said Christy, as the three officers seated themselves
at the table.

"I think we shall have no difficulty on that score, Captain Passford,
for I have already sounded those on board of the Arran, or the Escambia,
as her officers call her. As long as their wages are paid, they don't
care which side they serve. Mr. Pivotte is the chief, and he is as
willing to go one way as the other."

"Very well; then he shall retain his present position, and Bockburn
shall be restored to the Ocklockonee. Of course the arrangements made
after the capture of the first vessel were only temporary, and I propose
to report to the flag officer with everything as nearly as possible in
the condition in which we left New York," continued Christy.

"Of course I expected to resume my former position on board of the Bronx
as soon as we had disposed of the two steamers; and I can say that I
shall not be sorry to do so," said Flint with a pleasant smile, as
though he did not intend to grieve over the loss of his command.

"In a few days more, we shall move down a peg, and I shall cease to have
a command as well as yourself," added Christy.

"And I suppose I shall be relegated to my position as a quartermaster,"
said Baskirk; "but I shall be satisfied. I don't care to wear any spurs
that I have not won, though I shall be glad to have a higher rank when I
deserve it."

"You deserve it now, Mr. Baskirk, and if you don't receive it, it will
not be on account of any weakness in my report of the events of the last
twenty-four hours," added Christy heartily.

"Thank you, captain; I suppose I could have procured a better position
than that of able seaman, but I preferred to work my way up."

"It was wise not to begin too high up, and you have already won your
spurs. Now, Mr. Baskirk, I shall ask you to take the deck, relieving Mr.
Amblen," added Christy, who wished to talk with Flint alone.

"I shall be really glad to get back into the Bronx, for I feel at home
here with you, captain," said Flint.

"You will be back to your berth here very soon. Now we have to send
these two steamers to New York. They are fine vessels, and will be
needed. We want two prize masters, and we must have able men. Have you
any suggestion to make, Mr. Flint? I first thought of sending you as the
principal one; but I cannot spare you, and the service in the Gulf needs
you."

"I am entirely willing to go where my duty calls me, without regard to
personal preferences," replied Flint. "I have a suggestion to make:
which is that Baskirk take one of the steamers."

"That is exactly my own idea; from what I have seen of him, there is no
more devoted officer in the service."

"I have known him for many years, and I believe in him. McSpindle is
almost as good, and has had a better education than Baskirk. I don't
think you could find two better men in the navy for this duty."

"Very well; then I will appoint them both."

Flint was instructed to communicate their appointment to Baskirk and
McSpindle, and make all the preparations for the departure of the
Escambia and the Ocklockonee. Christy went to his state room, and wrote
his report of the capture of the two steamers, in which he commended the
two officers who were to go as prize masters, and then wrote a letter to
his father, with a strong appeal in their favor. Then he wrote very
careful instructions for the government of the officers to be sent away,
in which he directed them to use all necessary precautions in regard to
the prisoners. In a couple of hours after the capture of the Escambia,
the two prizes sailed for New York. Captain Dinsmore expressed his
thanks very warmly to Captain Passford for his courtesy and kindness
at parting.

Christy had visited every part of the two steamers, and talked with the
officers and men, and especially with the engineers, and he discovered
no elements of discord on board of either. Hungerford and Pawcett were
transferred to the Escambia, and committed to the care of the surgeon
of the ship. Both of them were suffering from fever, and they were not
likely to give the prize master any trouble during the passage, which
could only be three or four days in duration. Baskirk and McSpindle were
required to make all the speed they could consistent with safety, though
Christy hardly thought they would encounter any Confederate rover on the
voyage, for they were not very plenty at this stage of the war.

It seemed a little lonesome on board of the Bronx after the two steamers
had disappeared in the distance, and the number of the crew had been
so largely reduced by the drafts for the prizes. The steamer was hardly
in condition to engage an enemy of any considerable force, and Sampson
was directed to hurry as much as possible. Christy had heard of the
Bellevite twice since he left her off Pensacola Bay. She had been sent
to other stations on duty, and had captured two schooners loaded with
cotton as prizes; but at the last accounts she had returned to the
station where the Bronx had left her.

Christy was not so anxious as he had been before the recent captures
to fall in with an enemy, for with less than twenty seamen it would not
be prudent to attack such a steamer as either of those he had captured,
though he would not have objected to chase a blockade runner if he had
discovered one pursued by the gunboats.

It was a quiet time on board of the Bronx compared with the excitement
of the earlier days of the voyage. In the very beginning of the trip,
he had discovered the deaf mute at the cabin door, and his thought,
his inquiries, and his action in defeating the treachery of the second
lieutenant had kept him busy night and day. Now the weather was fine
most of the time, and he had little to do beyond his routine duties. But
he did a great deal of thinking in his cabin, though most of it was in
relation to the events which had transpired on board of the Bronx.

He had captured two valuable prizes; but he could not feel that he was
entitled to any great credit for the achievements of his vessel, since
he had been warned in the beginning to look out for the Scotian and the
Arran. He had taken the first by surprise, and the result was due to the
carelessness of her commander rather than to any great merit on his own
part. The second he had taken with double the force of the enemy in
ships and men; and the latter was not precisely the kind of a victory
he was ambitious to win.

At the same time, his self-respect assured him that he had done his duty
faithfully, and that it had been possible for him to throw away his
advantage by carelessness. If he had fallen in with both the Scotian and
the Arran at the same time, the result might have been different, though
he was sure that he should have fought his ship as long as there was
anything left of her. In that case there would have been more room for
manoeuvring and strategy, for he did not admit to himself that he
should have been beaten.

Amblen continued to hold his place as second lieutenant, and McLinn was
appointed acting third lieutenant. The carpenter repaired the bridge,
though Christy would not have been very sorry if it had been so
thoroughly smashed as to be beyond restoration, for it was hardly a
naval institution. The men who had been only slightly wounded in the
action with the Escambia were progressing finely under the care of Dr.
Spokeley, and when the Bronx was off the southern cape of Florida, they
were able to return to duty. The latest information located the flag
officer off Pensacola, and in due time Christy reported to him. The
Bellevite was still there, and the commander went on board of her, where
he received an ovation from the former officers and seamen with whom he
had sailed. He did not take any pains to recite his experience, but it
was soon known throughout the fleet.

"Christy, I shall hardly dare to sail in command of a ship of which you
are the executive officer," said Lieutenant Blowitt, who was to command
the Bronx, with a laugh.

"Why not? Is my reputation so bad as that?" asked Christy.

"Bad! No, it is so good. The fact of it is, you are such a tremendous
fellow, there will be no room for any other officer to shine in the same
sky."

"I have been in command for a few days, hardly more than a week, but I
assure you that I can and shall obey the orders of my commander to the
very letter," added Christy.

"But you took two steamers, each of them of nearly twice the tonnage of
your own ship, in mid ocean."

"But I took them one at a time. If I had fallen in with both at the same
time, the affair might have gone the other way. We captured the first
one by accident, as it were, and the second with double the force of
the enemy. I don't take much credit to myself for that sort of thing.
I don't think it was half as much of an affair as bringing out the
Teaser, for we had to use some science on that occasion," replied
Christy quietly.

"Science, is it?" laughed Mr. Blowitt. "Perhaps you can assist me to
some of your science, when it is required."

"I shall obey my superior officer, and not presume to advise him unless
he asks me to do so."

"Well, Christy, I think you are the most audacious young fellow I ever
met," added the future commander of the Bronx.

"I haven't anything about me that I call audacity, so far as I
understand myself. When I am told to do any duty, I do it if it is
possible; and whether it is possible often depends upon whether you
think it is or not."

"I should say that it was audacious for you to think of capturing two
steamers, fitted out for war purposes, and twice the size of your own
ship, with the Bronx," added Mr. Blowitt, still laughing, to take off
the edge of his criticism.

"Why did the Navy Department instruct me in my sealed orders to look out
for these steamers, if I was to do so in a Pickwickian sense?" demanded
Christy earnestly. "What would you have done, Mr. Blowitt?"

"Perhaps I should have been as audacious as you were, Christy, if such
had been my orders."

This conversation took place on the deck of the Bellevite where Christy
had come to see his friends; and it was interrupted by a boat from the
flag ship which brought a big envelope for Mr. Blowitt. It instructed
him to go on board of the Bronx, to the command of which he had been
appointed. Another order required him to proceed to a point on the
western coast of Florida, where the enemy were supposed to be loading
vessels with cotton, and break up the depot established for the purpose,
where it could be supplied by the Florida Railroad.

The new commander packed his clothing, and he was sent with Christy in
one of the Bellevite's boats to the Bronx. They went on board, where the
late acting commander had already removed his own property to the ward
room, and Captain Blowitt was conducted to his cabin and state room, of
which he took formal possession. He seemed to be very much pleased with
his accommodations since the government had put the vessel in order,
though he had been on board of her, and fought a battle on her deck,
while she was still the Teaser.

"I am sure I could not ask for anything better than this cabin," said
he, after he had invited his first lieutenant to come in.

"I found it very comfortable," added Christy. "Flint is second
lieutenant, and Sampson chief engineer; and that is all there are of
those who were in the Bellevite. I will introduce you to the acting
third lieutenant, Mr. Amblen, and you can retain him or not as you
please."

Mr. Amblen was called in and presented to the captain, and then Flint
was ordered to get under way.




CHAPTER XXI

AN EXPEDITION IN THE GULF


The Bronx had been three days on the station, Christy had made his
report in full on her arrival, and the flag officer had visited the
vessel in person, in order to ascertain her fitness for several
enterprises he had in view. The Confederates were not sleepy or
inactive, and resorted to every expedient within their means to
counteract both morally and materially the efficiency of the blockade.

The Bronx was admirably adapted to service in the shoal waters where the
heavier vessels of the investing squadron could not go, and her arrival
solved several problems then under consideration. Captain Blowitt and
Christy had been sent for, and the late commander of the Bronx was
questioned in regard to the steamer, her draught, her speed, and her
ship's company. The damage done to her in the conflict with the Escambia
had been fully repaired by the carpenter and his gang, and the steamer
was in as good condition as when she sailed from New York.

"In regard to the present officers, Mr. Passford, excepting present
company, of course, they are excellent," said Captain McKeon, the flag
officer. "For the service in which the Bronx is to be engaged, its
success will depend upon the officers, though it is hardly exceptional
in this respect. I understand that you sailed from New York rather
short-handed abaft the mainmast."

"Yes, sir, we did; but fortunately we had most excellent material of
which to make officers, and we made them," replied Christy.

"I should like to know something about them; I mean apart from Captain
Blowitt and yourself, for you have already made your record, and yours,
Mr. Passford, is rather a dazzling reputation for one so young."

"I am willing to apologize for it, sir," replied Christy, blushing like
a maiden, as he was in duty bound to do, for he could not control the
crimson that rose to his browned cheeks.

"Quite unnecessary," replied Captain McKeon, smiling. "As long as you do
your duty nobody will be jealous of you, and you will be a fit officer
for all our young men to emulate. You were the acting commander on the
voyage of the Bronx from New York. Your executive officer is the present
second lieutenant. Is he qualified for the peculiar duty before you?"

"No one could be more so, sir," replied Christy with proper enthusiasm.

"I can fully indorse this opinion of Mr. Passford," added Captain
Blowitt. "In the capture and bringing out of the Teaser, Mr. Flint was
the right hand man of the leader of the enterprise."

"And I gave him the command of the Ocklockonee, after her capture, and
she took an active part in the affair with the Escambia, sir," said
Christy.

"Then we will consider him the right man in the right place," replied
the flag officer. "Who is the present third lieutenant?"

"Mr. Amblen is acting in that capacity at present, and he is a very good
officer, though he holds no rank," answered Christy.

"Then I can hardly confirm him as second lieutenant," added Captain
McKeon.

"In my report of the affairs with the Ocklockonee and the Escambia,
I have strongly recommended him and three other officers for promotion,
for all of them are fitted by education and experience at sea to do duty
on board of such vessels as the Bronx."

"Have you any officer in mind who would acceptably fill the vacant
place, Captain Blowitt?"

"I know of no one at present who holds the rank to entitle him to such a
position, and I shall appeal to Mr. Passford," replied the new
commander.

"You have named Mr. Amblen, Mr. Passford; is he just the officer you
would select if the matter were left to you?" asked the flag officer.

"No, sir, though he would do very well. Mr. Baskirk, who served as
executive officer while Mr. Flint was away in the Ocklockonee, is better
adapted for the place," said Christy. "He commanded the first division
of boarders on board of the Escambia, and he fought like a hero and is a
man of excellent judgment. I am confident that he will make his mark as
an officer. I am willing to admit that I wrote a letter to my father
especially requesting him to do what he could for the immediate
promotion of Mr. Baskirk."

"Then he will be immediately promoted," added Captain McKeon with an
expressive smile.

"I may add also that I was presumptive enough to suggest his appointment
as third lieutenant of the Bronx," continued Christy.

"Then he will be the third lieutenant of the Bronx; and what you say
would have settled the matter in the first place as well as now," said
the flag officer, as much pleased with the reticence of the young
officer as with his modesty. "Amblen may remain on board till his
commission comes, and you can retain him as third lieutenant, Captain
Blowitt, if you are so disposed. I have ordered a draft of twelve seamen
to the Bronx, which will give you a crew of thirty, and I cannot spare
any more until more men are sent down. I may add that I have taken some
of them from the Bellevite."

"I am quite satisfied, sir, with the number, though ten more would be
acceptable," replied the commander of the Bronx.

The two officers were then dismissed and ordered on board of their ship.
A little later the draft of seamen was sent on board, and among them
Christy was not sorry to see Boxie, the old sheet-anchor man of the
Bellevite, who had made him a sort of pet, and had done a great deal to
instruct him in matters of seamanship, naval customs, and traditions not
found in any books.

The commander and the executive officer paid their final visit to the
Bellevite the next day, and the order was given to weigh anchor. When
all hands were called, Christy thought he had never seen a better set of
men except on board of the Bellevite, and the expedition, whatever it
was, commenced under the most favorable auspices.

The Bronx sailed in the middle of the forenoon, and the flag officer was
careful not to reveal the destination of the steamer to any one, for
with the aid of the telegraph, the object of the expedition might reach
the scene of operations in advance of the arrival of the force. At four
o'clock in the afternoon Captain Blowitt opened his envelope in presence
of the executive officer. He looked the paper through before he spoke,
and then handed it to Christy, who read it with quite as much interest
as the commander had.

"Cedar Keys," said the captain, glancing at his associate.

"That is not a long run from the station," added Christy. "We are very
likely to be there before to-morrow morning."

"It is about two hundred and eighty statute miles, I had occasion to
ascertain a week ago when something was said about Cedar Keys," replied
Captain Blowitt. "We have been making about fifteen knots, for the Bronx
is a flyer, and we ought to be near our destination at about midnight.
That would be an excellent time to arrive if we only had a pilot."

"Perhaps we have one," added Christy with a smile.

"Are you a pilot on this coast, Mr. Passford?" asked the commander,
mistaking the smile.

"No, sir, I am not; but I remember a conversation Mr. Flint and I had
with Mr. Amblen, who was engaged in some sort of a speculation in
Florida when the war came on. He was so provoked at the treatment he
received that he shipped in the navy at once. I only know that he had a
small steamer in these waters."

"Send for Mr. Amblen at once!" exclaimed the commander, who appeared to
have become suddenly excited. "There will be no moon to-night in these
parts, and we may be able to hurry this matter up if we have a competent
pilot."

Christy called Dave, and sent him for the acting third lieutenant, for
he knew that Mr. Flint had had the watch since four o'clock. Mr. Amblen
was sunning himself on the quarter deck, and he promptly obeyed the
summons.

"I am glad to see you, Mr. Amblen, and I hope you will prove to be as
useful a person as I have been led to believe you may be," said the
captain.

"I shall endeavor to do my duty, sir," replied the third lieutenant,
who was always very ambitious to earn the good opinion of his superiors.
"I mean to do the best I can to make myself useful, Captain Blowitt."

"I know that very well; but the question now is what you know rather
than what you can do as an officer. Mr. Passford informs me that you
were formerly engaged in some kind of a speculation on the west coast
of Florida."

"Hardly a speculation, sir, for I was engaged in the fish business,"
replied Mr. Amblen, laughing at the name which had been given to his
calling. "When I sold a small coaster that belonged to me, I got in
exchange a tug boat. I had been out of health a few years before; I
spent six months at Cedar Keys and Tampa, and got well. Fish were plenty
here, and of a kind that bring a good price farther north. I loaded my
tug with ice, and came down here in her. I did a first-rate business
buying from boats and in catching fish myself, and for a time I made
money, though ice was so dear that I had to sell in the South."

"Did you have a pilot on board of your tug?" asked the captain.

"No, sir; I was my own pilot. I had the charts, and I studied out the
bottom, so that I knew where I was in the darkest night."

"Then you are just the person we want if you are a pilot in these
waters."

"What waters, sir? We are now off Cape St. Blas and Apalachicola Bay.
I have been into the bay, but I am not a pilot in those waters, as you
suggest."

"I have just opened my orders, and I find we are ordered to Cedar Keys,"
interposed the commander.

"That is quite another thing, sir; and there isn't a foot of bottom
within five miles of the Keys to which I have not been personally
introduced. When I was down here for my health I was on the water more
than half of the time, and I learned all about the bay and coast; and I
have been up the Suwanee River, which flows into the Gulf eighteen miles
north of the Keys."

"I am exceedingly glad to find that we have such an excellent pilot on
board. I am informed in my orders that schooners load with cotton at
this place, and make an easy thing of getting to sea," added Captain
Blowitt.

"I should say that it was a capital port for the Confederates to use for
that sort of business. Small steamers can bring cotton down the Suwanee
River, the railroad from Fernandina terminates at the Key, and this road
connects with that to Jacksonville and the whole of western Florida as
far as Tallahassee."

"We may find a steamer or two there."

"You may, though not one any larger than the Bronx, for there is only
eleven feet of water on the bar. Probably no blockaders have yet been
stationed off the port, and it is a good place to run out cotton."

"I am much obliged to you, Mr. Amblen, for the information you have
given me, and your services will probably be in demand this very night,"
added the commander, rising from his chair.

"I am ready for duty at all times, sir," replied Mr. Amblen, as he
retired from the cabin.

The charts were then consulted, and sundry calculations were made. At
one o'clock that night the Bronx was off Cedar Keys.




CHAPTER XXII

A NIGHT EXPEDITION IN THE BOATS


During the evening Captain Blowitt had consulted his officers, and
arranged his plans for operations, or at least for obtaining information
in regard to the situation inside of North Key, where the landing place
is situated. He had already arranged to give the command of the boat
expedition to Christy, with the second lieutenant in another boat, Mr.
Amblen being with the executive officer in the first.

"Now, Mr. Passford, I do not expect you to capture the whole State of
Florida, and if you should return without accomplishing anything at
all, I shall not be disappointed, but I shall feel that you have done
everything that could be done," said the captain, with a very cheerful
smile, when all had been arranged.

"I shall endeavor to obey my orders, Captain Blowitt, if I can do so in
the exercise of a reasonable prudence," replied Christy, who took in all
that his superior looked, as well as all that he said.

"A reasonable prudence is decidedly good, coming from you, Mr.
Passford," said the captain, laughing outright.

"Why is it decidedly good from me rather than from anybody else?" asked
Christy, somewhat nettled by the remark.

"You objected once on board of the Bellevite when I mildly hinted that
you might sometimes, under some circumstances, with a strong temptation
before you, be just a little audacious," said the captain, still
laughing, as though he were engaged in a mere joke.

"That statement is certainly qualified in almost all directions, if you
will excuse me for saying so, captain," replied Christy, who was fully
determined not to take offence at anything his superior might say, for
he had always regarded him as one of his best friends. "If I remember
rightly the mild suggestion of a criticism which you gently and tenderly
applied to me was after we had brought out the Teaser from Pensacola
Bay."

"That was the time. Captain Breaker sent you to ascertain, if you could,
where the Teaser was, and you reported by bringing her out, which
certainly no one expected you would do, and I believe this part of the
programme carried out on that excursion was not mentioned in your
orders."

"It was not; but if I had a good chance to capture the steamer, was it
my duty to pass over that chance, and run the risk of letting the vessel
get out?"

"On the contrary, it was your duty, if you got a good chance, to capture
the steamer."

"And that is precisely what I did. I did not lose a man, or have one
wounded in the expedition; and I have only to be penitent for being
audacious," laughed Christy; and he was laughing very earnestly, as
though the extra cachinnation was assumed for a purpose. "I suppose
I ought to dress myself in ash cloth and sashes, shut myself up in my
state room always when off duty, and shed penitential tears from the
rising of the sun to the going down of the same, and during the lone
watches of the night, and in fortifying my soul against the monstrous
sin of audacity. I will think of it."

"I hope you have no feeling about this matter, Mr. Passford," said the
captain, rising from his chair and taking Christy by the hand.

"Not a particle, Captain Blowitt. I am absolutely sure that you would
have done precisely what I did, if you had been in my situation,"
protested Christy. "About the last thing my father talked about to me
when we parted in this cabin in New York Harbor was the necessity of
prudence and discretion in the discharge of my duties; and I am sure his
advice saved me from falling into the traps set for me by Hungerford and
Pawcett, and enabled me to capture two of the enemy's crack steamers."

"I will never use the word audacity or the adjective audacious to you
again, Christy. I see that it nettles you, to say the least," added the
captain, pressing his hand with more earnestness.

"I am perfectly willing you should apply both words to me when I
deserve it. Audacity means boldness, impudence, according to Stormonth.
Audacious means very bold, daring, impudent. It may have been bold to
run out the Teaser, and the enemy would even call it impudent, for the
meaning of a word sometimes depends upon which side you belong to. My
father was quite as impudent as I was when he ran the Bellevite out of
Mobile Bay, under the guns of Fort Morgan. He was audacious, wasn't he?"

"We should hardly apply that word to him."

"Why not? Simply because my father was forty-five years old when he told
Captain Breaker to do it. If I were only thirty years old I should not
be audacious. I am a boy, and therefore anything that I do is daring,
audacious, impudent, imprudent."

"I rather think you are right, Mr. Passford, and it is your age more
than the results of your actions that is the basis of our judgment,"
said Captain Blowitt.

"I wish to add seriously, captain, as a friend and not as an officer,
I do not claim that the command of this expedition should be given to
me because I am first lieutenant of the Bronx, or for any other reason,"
added Christy with an earnest expression. "Perhaps it would be better to
give the command to the second lieutenant; and if you do so, I assure
you, upon my honor, that it will not produce a particle of feeling in my
mind. I shall honor, respect, and love you as I have always, Captain
Blowitt."

"My dear fellow, you are entirely misunderstanding me," protested the
commander, as earnestly as his subordinate had spoken. "I give you the
command of this expedition because I honestly and sincerely believe you
are the very best person on board to whom I can commit such a
responsibility."

"That is enough, captain, and a great deal more than you were under
any obligations to say to me; and I shall obey my orders with all the
prudence and discretion I can bring to bear upon them," said Christy,
taking the captain's offered hand. "If I fail it will not be because I
do not try to be prudent."

"There is such a thing as being too prudent, and I hope that nothing
which has been said to you by your father or by me will drive you to the
other extreme."

Though this conversation had at times been very animated, Christy was
glad that it had taken place, for it gave him a better insight into his
own standing than he had before. He did not look upon it as a very great
affair to command a couple of boats, in a night expedition, for he had
recently commanded two steamers, and brought them off victorious. He
had it in mind to ask the captain to send Flint in command of the
expedition, though it would compel him, on account of his rank, to
remain inactive on board of the Bronx; but he could not do this,
after what had been said, without leaving some evidence that he was
disaffected by what the commander had said to him about audacity.

It was found after a calculation of the run very carefully made that the
Bronx would arrive too soon at her destination, and she was slowed down
as the evening came on. In the ward room, of which Christy was now the
occupant of the forward berth on the starboard side, he studied the
chart with Amblen a good part of the waiting hours, and the executive
officer obtained all the information he could from the third lieutenant.
There were three principal keys, or cays, one of which, called the North
Key, was the nearest to the mainland, and was set in the mouth of a bay.
This was the nearest to the peninsula at the end of which the railroad
terminates. About southwest of it is the Seahorse Key, on which there is
a light in peaceful times. To the south of the point is the Snake Key,
and between the last two is the main channel to the port, which twists
about like the track of a snake. There is a town, or rather a village,
near the landing.

Six bells struck on deck, and all the officers, including the captain,
adjourned to the bridge, which was a useful institution on such
occasions as the present. A sharp watch had been kept by Lieutenant
Flint in charge; but though the night was clear, nothing had been made
out in the direction of the shore. All lights on board had been put out,
and the Bronx went along in the smooth sea as quietly as a lady on a
fashionable promenade, and it was not believed that anything could be
seen of her from the shore.

About midnight the lookout man aloft reported that he could see a
twinkling light. It was promptly investigated by Mr. Amblen, who went
aloft for the purpose. He was satisfied that it was a light in some
house in the village, probably in the upper story. It soon disappeared,
and it was thought to be occasioned by the late retiring of some person.

"I should say, Captain Blowitt, that we are not more than five miles
outside of Seahorse Key," said Mr. Amblen, after he had interpreted the
meaning of the light. "It is after midnight, and these people are not in
the habit of sitting up so late."

"If they are shipping much cotton from this port, it is not improbable
that there is a force here to protect the vessels, whatever they are,"
added the commander.

"Of that, of course, I can know nothing; but I shall expect to find a
Confederate battery somewhere on the point, and I know about where to
look for it."

"The place has never been of any great importance, and you can hardly
expect to find a very strong force in it," added the captain.

It has since become a place of more note, both as a resort for invalids
and pleasure-seekers, and as the termination of the railroad from
Fernandina and Jacksonville, and steamers have run regularly from the
port to Havana and New Orleans.

"If you will excuse me, Captain Blowitt, I should say that it was not
advisable to take the Bronx nearer than within about four miles of the
Seahorse Key," suggested Mr. Amblen.

"I was just thinking that we had gone as far as it is prudent to go.
Do you think you could take the Bronx up to the landing?" added the
captain.

"I am very sure that I could, for I have been in many a time on a darker
night than this."

"We will not go in to-night, but perhaps we may have occasion to do so
to-morrow. We shall know better what to do when we get a report of the
state of things in the place," replied the captain, as he gave the word
through the speaking tube to stop the steamer.

Christy had been given full powers to make all preparations for the boat
expedition, and was allowed ten men to each of the quarter boats. He had
selected the ones for his own boat, and had required Flint to pick his
own crew for the other. The oars had been carefully muffled by the
coxswains, for it was desirable that no alarm should be given in the
place. The starboard quarter boat was the first cutter, pulled by six
oars, and this was for Christy and Mr. Amblen, with the regular coxswain
and three hands in the bow. The second cutter was in charge of Mr.
Flint, and followed the other boat, keeping near enough to obtain her
course in the twists of the channel.

It was a long pull to the Seahorse Key, and a moderate stroke was taken
as well not to tire the men as to avoid all possible noise. When the
first cutter was abreast of the Key, the pilot pointed out the dark
outline of the peninsula, which was less than a mile distant. No vessel
could be seen; but the pilot thought they might be concealed by the
railroad buildings on the point. Christy asked where the battery was
which the pilot thought he could locate, and the spot was indicated to
him. Christy wanted a nearer view of it, and the cutter was headed in
that direction.




CHAPTER XXIII

THE VISIT TO A SHORE BATTERY


The first cutter reached the Seahorse Key closely followed by the
second. It was within an hour of high tide, the ordinary rise and fall
of which was two and a half feet. On the Key was a light house, and a
cottage for the keeper of it; but the former was no longer illuminated,
and the house was as dark as the head of the tower. So far as could be
discovered there was no one on the Key, though the boats did not stop to
investigate this matter. The crews still pulled a moderate stroke with
their muffled oars, the men were not allowed to talk, and everything was
as silent as the inside of a tomb.

The pilot stood up in the stern sheets of the cutter, gazing intently
in the direction of the point nearly a mile ahead. The outlines of the
buildings could be discerned, and Amblen soon declared that he could
make out the tops of the masts of several vessels to the westward of
the point with which the peninsula terminated. This looked hopeful, and
indicated that the information upon which the expedition had been sent
out was correct. Christy began to think he should have a busy night
before him when Amblen said there were at least three vessels at the
port.

The battery was first to be visited and cared for if there was one,
and it was not probable that a place so open to the operations of
the blockading force would be without one, especially if the people
were actually engaged in loading cotton, as the masts of the vessels
indicated, though the hulls could not yet be seen. As the first cutter
approached nearer to the place the outlines became more distinct, and
soon embodied themselves into definite objects. Both officers in the
stern sheets watched with the most anxious vigilance for any moving
object denoting the presence of life and intelligence.

As the boats came nearer to the shore, a breeze sprang up, and cooled
the air, for early as it was in the season, the weather was very warm,
and it was not uncommon for the thermometer to rise above ninety. These
breezes were usually present to cool the nights, and doubtless the
inhabitants slept the sounder for the one which had just begun to fan
the cheeks of the officers and seamen of the expedition.

"There is a battery there, Mr. Passford," said the pilot in a very low
tone. "I can make it out now, and it is just where I supposed it would
be."

"I can see something that seems like an earthwork at the right of the
buildings," added Christy. "Can you make out anything that looks like a
sentinel?"

"I can see nothing that denotes the presence of a man. If there were
a sentinel there, he would be on the top of the earthwork, or on the
highest ground about it, so that he could see out into the bay, for
there can be no danger from the land side of the place," added Amblen.

"I can hardly imagine such a thing as a battery without a sentinel to
give warning if anybody should try to carry it off. There must be a
sentry somewhere in the vicinity."

"I can't say there isn't, though I can't make out a man, or anything
that looks like one," replied the pilot.

"Very likely we shall soon wake him up, Mr. Amblen; and in that case it
will be necessary for us to find a safer place than in front of the guns
of the battery, for I do not feel at liberty to expose the men to the
fire of the works, whatever they are."

"All you have to do is to pull around to the other side of the point
into the bay, where the vessels are. I am confident there is no battery
on that side, and there can hardly be any need of one, for this one
commands the channel, the only approach to the place for a vessel larger
than a cutter."

"I fancy this battery does not amount to much, and is probably nothing
more than an earthwork, with a few field guns behind it. Suppose we
should wake it up, and have to make for the bay, can we get out of it
without putting the boats under the guns of the battery?"

"Without any difficulty at all, sir. We have only to pull around the
North Key, and pass out to the Gulf, beyond the reach of any field gun
that can be brought to bear on us," replied Mr. Amblen.

"If they have one or two field batteries here, they may hitch on the
horses, and follow us," suggested Christy, who, in spite of the audacity
with which he had been mildly charged, was not inclined to run into any
trap from which he could not readily withdraw his force.

"We shall have the short line, and if they pursue us with the guns, we
can retire by the way of the channel, which they will leave uncovered."

"We are getting quite near the shore," continued Christy. "How is the
water under us?"

"The bottom is sandy, and we shall take the ground before we reach the
shore if we don't manage properly. But we can tell something by the
mangroves that fringe the land," replied the pilot; "and I will go into
the bow of the cutter and look out for them."

Mr. Amblen made his way to the fore sheets, and asked Boxie, who was
there, for the boathook, with which he proceeded to sound. When he had
done so, he raised both his hands to a level with his shoulders, which
was the signal to go ahead, and the men pulled a very slow stroke. He
continued to sound, after he had selected the point for landing.

When the first cutter was within three lengths of the shore, he elevated
both his hands above his head, which was the signal to cease rowing,
though the two bow oarsmen kept their oars in the water instead of
boating them as the others did. Mr. Amblen continued to feel the way,
and in a few minutes more, aided by the shoving of the two bow oarsmen,
he brought the boat to the shore.

Then he gave his attention to the second cutter, bringing it to the
land alongside of the first. Stepping out on the sand himself, he
was followed by all the crew, with cutlass in hand, and revolvers in
readiness for use. The men were placed in order for an advance, and then
required to lie down on the sand, so that they could not readily be seen
if any stroller appeared on the ground.

Leaving the force in charge of Mr. Flint, Christy and Amblen walked
towards the battery, crouching behind such objects as they could
find that would conceal them in whole or in part. The earthwork was
semicircular in form, and was hardly more than a rifle pit. No sentinel
could be discovered, and getting down upon the sand, the two officers
crept cautiously towards the heaps of sand which formed the fort.

Christy climbed up the slope with some difficulty, for the dry sand
afforded a very weak foothold. On the top of it, which was about six
feet wide, they found a solid path which had evidently been a promenade
for sentinels or other persons. Behind it, on a wooden platform, were
four field guns, with depressions in the earthwork in front of the
muzzles.

Christy led the way down the slope on the inside to the pieces, which
were twelve-pounders. At a little distance from the platform was a sort
of casemate, which might have been constructed for a magazine, or for a
place of resort for the gunners if the fort should be bombarded. Not a
man could be seen, and if there was any garrison for the place, they
were certainly taking things very comfortably, for they must have been
asleep at this unseemly hour for any ordinary occupation.

Not far from the battery was a rude structure, hardly better than a
shanty, which Christy concluded must be the barracks of the soldiers if
there were any there. He walked over to it; but there was not a human
being to be seen in the vicinity. It was half past one at night, when
honest people ought to be abed and asleep, and the first lieutenant of
the Bronx concluded that the garrison, if this shanty was their
quarters, must be honest people.

Christy walked very cautiously to the side of the building, for the
entrance was at the end nearest to the fort, and found several windows
there, from which the sashes seemed to have been removed, if there had
ever been any. The bottom of each opening was no higher than his head,
and he went to one of them and looked in.

Extending along the middle of the interior was a row of berths. It was
very dark inside, and he could not make out whether or not these bunks
were occupied. The windows on the other side of the shanty enabled him
to see that there were two rows of berths, each backing against the
other. There were two in each tier, and he judged that the barrack would
accommodate forty-eight men.

He retained his place at the window in order to discover any movement
made by a sleeper that would inform him whether or not the berths were
occupied. If there were any soldiers there, they were as quiet as
statues; but while he was watching for a movement, he heard a decided
snore. There was at least one man there, and he continued to hear his
sonorous breathing as long as he remained at the window, which was the
first on the side of the shanty.

  [Illustration: Christy walked the whole length of the shanty.]

Christy decided to push the investigation still farther, and he went
to a window in the middle of the building. He regarded the berths with
attention for a few minutes, but he could perceive no movement. He could
hear two snorers who seemed to be competing with each other to see who
could make the most noise.

If the berths were all occupied, three snorers were not a very great
proportion in forty-eight. He was very anxious to ascertain if this was
the number of soldiers in the place, but it was too dark in the shanty
for him to determine whether or not the bunks were all in use. It was
too many for him to encounter with his force of twenty men and three
officers in the open field.

Christy returned to the end of the building, and tried the door. It was
not locked, and he decided to make use of a little of the audacity of
which he was accused of having a good deal. Taking off his shoes, and
passing his sword to Mr. Amblen, he entered the barrack on tiptoe.

The boards of the floor began to creak under his weight; he stooped down
and felt till he found the nail holes; then he knew that he was on a
timber, and he walked the whole length of the shanty, returning on the
opposite side, counting the occupied berths, for he passed within three
feet of all of them. The count gave seventeen men as the number of
sleepers, though this might not be all the force at the place.

He had ascertained all he wished to know, and he walked back to the
shore where the men were concealed. Apart from the men, he had a
conference with Flint and Amblen, giving them the details of what he had
discovered. Then he stated his plan, and the men were marched silently
to the battery, and were posted behind the breastwork. Not a man was
allowed to move, and Christy and Flint went to the casemate, which
looked like a mound of sand.

It was locked, but taking a bar of iron they found with some tools for
digging, they tore off the padlock. A lantern had been brought from
the steamer, which was lighted. The structure was found to be for the
protection of the artillerists in the first instance; but the apartment
was connected with the magazine, the lock of which was removed.

Amblen was sent for ten men, and all the ammunition they could carry was
removed. The rest of it was thrown into a pool of water made by recent
rains. The powder, solid shot, and shells were carried to the boats. The
rest of the men drew the four guns to the shore, where one was placed,
with its carriage, in each of the cutters, and the other two put where
they could be carried to the Bronx, or thrown overboard in deep water,
as occasion might require.

The seventeen soldiers, reinforced by any that might be in the town,
were thus deprived of the power to do any mischief except in a
hand-to-hand fight. If the place was not actually captured, it was
practically lost to the enemy. The next business of the expedition was
to examine the bay, and ascertain what vessels were at the landing
place. The boats shoved off, and pulled around the point.




CHAPTER XXIV

CAPTAIN LONLEY OF THE STEAMER HAVANA


The two twelve-pounders in each boat were believed to weigh about six
hundred pounds each, while the ordinary bronze boat gun of the same
calibre weighs seven hundred and sixty pounds. The four guns, therefore,
were rather too heavy a burden for the size of the cutters. But Christy
was unwilling to throw the two without carriages overboard, for the
water in this locality was so clear that they could have been seen at a
depth of two or three fathoms. They were useless for the duty in which
the expedition was engaged, and the commander of the expedition decided
to land them on the Seahorse Key till he had completed his operations in
the bay, when they could be taken off and transported to the Bronx as
trophies, if for nothing better.

Mr. Flint was disposed to object to this plan, on account of the time it
would require; but he yielded the point when Christy informed him that
it was only half past two, as he learned from the repeater he carried
for its usefulness on just such duty as the present expedition.

The guns and all that belonged to them were landed on the Key, and the
boats shoved off, the lieutenants happy in the thought that they were no
longer embarrassed by their weight, while they could not be brought to
bear upon them.

The boats had hardly left the little island behind them when the noise
of paddle wheels ahead was reported by one of the trio in the bow of the
first cutter. Christy listened with all his ears, and immediately heard
the peculiar sounds caused by the slapping of the paddle wheels of a
steamer upon the water.

"We are in for something," said he to the pilot, as he listened to the
sounds. "What might that be?"

"It is a steamer without any doubt coming around the point, and she will
be in sight in a moment or two," replied Mr. Amblen. "It may be a river
steamer that has brought a load of cotton down the Suwanee, and is going
out on this tide."

"Then we may need those guns we have left on the key," suggested
Christy.

"If she is a river steamer, there is not much of a force on board of
her," replied the pilot.

"We might return to the island, and use the two guns with carriages
there."

"If she is a river steamer, we shall not need great guns to capture
her."

Christy had ordered the men to cease rowing, and the two cutters lay
motionless on the full sea, for the tide was at its height by this time.
Even in the darkness they could make out whether the approaching vessel
was a river or a sea steamer as soon as she could be seen.

"Whatever she is, we must capture her," said Christy, very decidedly.

"If she is a river steamer, she will be of no use to the government,"
added Mr. Amblen.

"Of none at all." replied Christy. "In that case I shall burn her, for
it would not be safe to send good men in such a craft to a port where
she could be condemned. The next question is, shall we take her here,
or nearer to the shore."

"The farther from the shore the better, I should say, Mr. Passford.
After she passes the Seahorse Key, she will be in deep water for a
vessel coming out of that port; and until she gets to the Key, she will
move very slowly, and we can board her better than when she is going at
full speed," said Mr. Amblen.

"You are doubtless quite right, Mr. Amblen, and I shall adopt your
suggestion," replied Christy. "There she comes, and she is no river
steamer."

She had not the two tall funnels carried by river steamers, and that
point was enough to settle her character. There could be no doubt she
would have been a blockade runner, if there had been any blockade to
run at the entrance to the port. Christy decided to board the steamer
between the two keys, the channel passing between Snake and Seahorse.
The first cutter fell back so that Christy could communicate with Mr.
Flint, and he instructed him to take a position off the Snake Key, where
his boat could not be discovered too soon, and board the steamer on the
port side, though he did not expect any resistance. Each cutter took its
position and awaited in silence the approach of the blockade runner. The
only thing Christy feared was that she would come about and run back to
the port, though this could only delay her capture.

The steamer, as well as the officers could judge her in the distance,
was hardly larger than the Bronx. They concluded that she must be loaded
with cotton, and at this time it was about as valuable a cargo as could
be put on board of her. She would be a rich prize, and the masts of the
schooners were still to be seen over the tops of the buildings. She must
have chosen this hour of the night to go out, not only on account of the
tide, but because the darkness would enable her to get off the coast
where a blockader occasionally wandered before the blockade was fully
established. Her paddle wheels indicated that she had not been built
very recently, for very nearly all sea steamers, including those of the
United States, were propelled by the screw.

As Mr. Amblen had predicted the steamer moved very slowly, and it was
all of a quarter of an hour before she came to the Seahorse Key. At the
right time Christy gave the word to the crew to "Give way lively!" and
the first cutter shot out from the concealment of the little island,
while Flint did the same on the other side of the channel. Almost in the
twinkling of an eye the two boats had made fast to her, and seven men
from each boat leaped on the deck of the steamer, cutlass in hand. No
guns were to be seen, and the watch of not more than half a dozen men
were on the forecastle; and perhaps this was the entire force of the
sailing department.

"What does all this mean?" demanded a man coming from the after part of
the vessel, in a voice which Christy recognized as soon as he had heard
half of the sentence.

"Good morning, Captain Lonley," said Christy, in the pleasantest of
tones. "You are up early, my friend, but I think we are a little ahead
of you on this occasion."

"Who are you, sir?" demanded Lonley; and Christy had at once jumped to
the conclusion that he was the captain of the steamer. "I have heard
your voice before, but I cannot place you, sir."

"Fortunately for me, it is not necessary that you should place me this
time," replied Christy. "It is equally fortunate that I am not compelled
to place you again, as I felt obliged to do, on board of the Judith in
Mobile Bay."

"Passford!" exclaimed Captain Lonley, stepping back a pace in his
astonishment.

"Passford, late of the Bellevite, and now executive officer of the
United States steamer Bronx, formerly the Teaser, privateer," answered
Christy, in his usual cheerful tones. "May I inquire the name of this
steamer?"

"This steamer is the Havana," replied Captain Lonley. "May I ask you,
Mr. Passford, in regard to your business on board of her?"

"I have a little affair on board of her, and my duty compels me to
demand her surrender as a prize to the Bronx."

"Caught again!" exclaimed Captain Lonley, stamping violently on the deck
in his disgust at his misfortune, and it was the third time that Christy
had thrown him "out of a job."

"The way of the transgressor is hard, Captain Lonley," added the
commander of the expedition.

"Transgressor, sir!" ejaculated the captain of the Havana. "What do you
mean by that, Mr. Passford?"

"Well, captain, you are in arms against the best government that the
good God ever permitted to exist for eighty odd years; and that is the
greatest transgression of which one can be guilty in a patriotic sense."

"I hold no allegiance to that government."

"So much the worse for you, Captain Lonley; but we will not talk
politics. Do you surrender?"

"This is not an armed steamer, and I have no force to resist; I am
compelled to surrender," replied the captain as he glanced at the
cutlasses of the men from the Bronx.

"That is a correct, though not a cheerful view of the question on
your part. I am very happy to relieve you from any further care of the
Havana, and you may retire to your cabin, where I shall have the honor
to wait upon you later."

"One word, Mr. Passford, if you please," said Captain Lonley, taking
Christy by the arm and leading him away from the rest of the boarding
party. "This steamer and the cotton with which she is loaded are the
property of your uncle, Homer Passford."

"Indeed?" was all that Christy thought it necessary to say in reply.

"You have already taken from him one valuable cargo of cotton; and it
would be magnanimous in you, as well as very kind of a near relative,
to allow me to pass on my way with the property of your uncle."

"Would it have been kind on the part of a near relative to allow his own
brother to pass out of Mobile Bay in the Bellevite?"

"That would have been quite another thing, for the Bellevite was
intended for the Federal navy," protested the Confederate captain. "It
would have been sacrificing his country to his fraternal feelings. This
is not a Confederate vessel, and is not intended as a war steamer,"
argued Lonley.

"Every pound of cotton my uncle sells is so much strength added to the
cause he advocates; and I hope, with no unkind thoughts or feelings in
regard to him, I shall be able to capture every vessel he sends out.
That is my view of the matter, and I am just as strong on my side of the
question as Uncle Homer is on his side. I would cut off my right hand
before I would allow your vessel or any other to escape, for I have
sworn allegiance to my government, and when I fail to do my duty at any
sacrifice of personal feeling, it will be when I have lost my mind; and
my uncle would do as much for his fractional government. We need not
discuss such a subject as you suggest, captain."

Captain Lonley said no more, and retired to his cabin. Christy was ready
for the next question in order. Accompanied by Mr. Flint, he looked the
steamer over. The mate had lighted his pipe and seated himself on a
water cask; and he seemed to be the only officer besides the captain on
board. The engineers were next visited. There were two of them, but they
were red hot for the Confederacy, and nothing was said to them except to
order them on deck, where they were placed with the crew, and a guard of
seamen set over them. The firemen were negroes, and they were willing to
serve under the new master, and doubtless were pleased with the change.
The crew of the Bronx on board of the Havana were canvassed to find a
man who had run an engine, but not one of them had any experience.

"That's bad," said Flint, when they had finished the inquiry. "We have
not an engineer on board, and we shall have to send off to the Bronx for
one."

"Not so bad as that, Mr. Flint," replied Christy. "There is one loyal
engineer on board, and I am the one. You will take the deck, and Mr.
Amblen will go into the pilot house. I am not quite ready to go off to
the Bronx yet, for there are two or three cotton schooners in this port,
and we are so fortunate as to have a steamer now to tow them out."

"Very likely those soldiers have waked up by this time," said Flint.

"Let them fire those guns at us, if they can find them," laughed
Christy.

Then he took Mr. Amblen into the engine room with him.




CHAPTER XXV

THE NEW ENGINEER OF THE PRIZE STEAMER


While enthusiastically pursuing his studies as an engineer, Christy
had visited a great many steamers with Paul Vapoor for the purpose of
examining the engines, so that he could hardly expect to find one with
whose construction he was not familiar, whether it was an American or a
foreign built machine. At the first glance after he entered the engine
room of the Havana, he knew the engine, and was ready to run it without
spending any time in studying it. He had brought the pilot with him in
order to come to an understanding in regard to the bells, for in the
navy the signals differ from those in the commercial marine.

"This steamer is provided with a gong and a jingling bell," said
Christy, as he pointed them out to his companion.

"My little steamer on this coast was run with just such bells," replied
Mr. Amblen.

"And so was the Bellevite, so that I am quite accustomed to the system
of signals; but it is well to be sure that we understand each other
perfectly if we expect to get this vessel out of the bay after we go
up to the port," added Christy.

"I agree with you entirely, sir. A single strong stroke on the gong is
to start or to stop her according to the circumstances," said the pilot.

"Precisely so; and two strokes are to back her," continued Christy.
"Going at full speed, the jingler brings the engine down to half speed,
or at half speed carries it up to full speed."

"That is my understanding of the matter," replied Mr. Amblen.

"Then we understand each other to a charm," continued the temporary
engineer. "Report to Mr. Flint that we are ready to go ahead."

Christy found a colored man who was on duty as an oiler, and four others
in the fire room, who seemed to be engaged in an earnest discussion of
the situation, for the capture of the Havana was a momentous event to
all of them. The oiler was at work, and had thoroughly lubricated the
machinery, as though he intended that any failure of the steamer should
not be from any fault on his part.

The new official set two of the firemen at work, though the boilers had
a good head of steam. The gong bell gave one sharp stroke, and Christy
started the engine.

The Havana was headed out to sea when she was captured, and in the slack
water she had not drifted at all. He went ahead slowly, and soon had the
bell to stop her; but he expected this, for the channel was narrow, and
it required considerable manoeuvring to get the steamer about. Then he
happened to think of the guns on the Seahorse Key, and through the
speaking tube he passed the word to Mr. Flint to have him land there
in order to take the guns and ammunition on board.

After a great deal of backing and going ahead, the Havana was headed
for the key, where she was stopped as near to it as the depth of water
would permit. The guns and other material were brought off, two of the
firemen, the oiler, and other colored men of the crew of the Havana
assisting in the work. The two guns that were provided with carriages
were mounted, and placed on the forecastle. They were loaded and
prepared for service by the trained gunners of the crew. Christy had
directed all this to be done on account of the delay which had attended
the good fortune of the expedition, for he might not get out of the bay
before the daylight came to reveal the presence of the force he
commanded to the people on the shore.

The gong rang again when all these preparations had been made, and the
Havana steamed slowly up the channel towards the bay. The oiler appeared
to have finished his work for the present. He was a more intelligent man
than the others of his color on board, and seemed to understand his
duties. Christy spoke to him, for he said nothing unless he was spoken
to, and he had learned that the commander of the expedition was doing
duty as engineer in the absence of any other competent person.

"How many schooners are there at the landing place at the keys?" asked
Christy.

"Only two schooners, sir," replied the man very respectfully.

"Are they loaded, --what is your name?" asked the engineer.

"My name is Dolly, sir."

"Dolly? That is a girl's name."

"My whole name is Adolphus, sir; but everybody calls me Dolly, and
I can't help myself," replied the oiler soberly, as though he had a
real grievance on account of the femininity of his nickname. "The two
schooners are not quite loaded, sir, but they are very nearly full. They
had some trouble here, among the hands."

"Had some trouble, did they? I should think there were soldiers enough
here to keep everything straight. How many artillerists or soldiers do
they keep here?" added Christy.

"They had about forty, but they don't have half that number now."

"What has become of them?"

"They were sent away to look for the hands that took to the woods. One
of the officers and about half of the men were sent off yesterday,"
replied Dolly, who seemed willing to tell all he knew.

"Why did the men run off?" asked Christy curiously.

"They brought about fifty hands, all slaves, down here to load the
steamer and the schooners. They set them at work yesterday morning, and
they had nearly put all the cotton into the schooners at dinner time.
To make the niggers work harder, they gave them apple jack."

"What is that?" asked the engineer, who never heard the name before.

"It is liquor made out of apples, and it is very strong," answered
Dolly; and he might have added that it was the vilest intoxicant to
be found in the whole world, not even excepting Russian vodka.

"And this liquor made the hands drunk, I suppose."

"They did not give them enough for that, sir; but it made them kind of
crazy, and they wanted more of it. That made the trouble; the hands
struck for liquor before dinner, and when they didn't get it, they took
to the woods, about fifty of them. The soldiers had to get their dinner
before they would start out after them; and that is the reason the
schooners are not full now, sir, and not a bale had been put into this
steamer."

"But she seems to be fully loaded now."

"Yes, sir; Captain Lonley paid the soldiers that were left to load the
Havana. They worked till eleven in the evening; they were not used to
that kind of work, and they got mighty tired, I can tell you," said
Dolly, with the first smile Christy had seen on his yellow face, for he
appeared to enjoy the idea of a squad of white men doing niggers' work.

"That was what made them sleep so soundly, and leave the battery on the
point to take care of itself," said Christy. "Where were the officers?"

"Two of them have gone on the hunt for the hands, and I reckon the
captain is on a visit to a planter who has a daughter, about forty miles
from here."

"The soldiers were sleeping very soundly in the barrack about two this
morning; and perhaps they were also stimulated with apple jack," added
Christy. "Did you drink any of it, Dolly?"

"No, sir, I never drink any liquor, for I am a preacher," replied the
oiler, with a very serious and solemn expression on his face.

"How do you happen to be a greaser on a steamer if you are a preacher?"

"I worked on a steamer on the Alabama River before I became a preacher,
and I took it up again. I was raised in a preacher's family, and worked
in the house."

He talked as though he had been educated, but he could neither read nor
write, and had picked up all his learning by the assistance of his ears
alone. But Christy had ascertained all he wished to know in regard to
the schooners, and he was prepared to carry out his mission in the bay.
At the fort it appeared that all the commissioned officers were absent
from the post, and the men, after exhausting themselves at work to which
they were unaccustomed, had taken to their bunks and were sleeping off
the fatigue, and perhaps the effects of the apple jack. While he was
thinking of the matter, the gong struck, and Christy stopped the engine.

"Do you know anything about an engine, Dolly?" he asked, turning to the
oiler.

"Yes, sir; I run the engine of the Havana over here from Mobile,"
replied Dolly. "I can do it as well as any one, if they will only trust
me."

"Then stand by the machine, and obey the bells if they are struck,"
added Christy, as he went on deck.

He found the second and third lieutenants standing on the rail engaged
in examining the surroundings. The day was just beginning to show itself
in the east, though it was not yet light enough to enable them to see
clearly on shore. By the side of the railroad building was a pier, at
which the two schooners lay. They could hear the sounds of some kind of
a stir on shore, but were unable to make out what it meant.

"We are losing time," said Christy, as he took in at a glance all he
deemed it necessary to know in regard to the situation.

"I was about to report to you, Mr. Passford; but Mr. Amblen wished to
ascertain whether or not there is a battery on this side of the point,"
said Flint.

"Do you find anything, Mr. Amblen?"

"No, sir; I can see nothing that looks like a battery," replied the
pilot.

"Then run in, and we will make fast to these schooners and haul them
out," added Christy in hurried tones.

The pilot went to the wheel, and rang one bell on the gong. Dolly
started the engine before Christy could reach the machine. He said
nothing to the oiler, but seated himself on the sofa, and observed his
movements. A few minutes later came the bell to stop her, and then two
bells to back her. Dolly managed the machine properly and promptly, and
seemed to be at home in the engine room. The color of his skin was a
sufficient guaranty of his loyalty, but Christy remained below long
enough to satisfy himself that Dolly knew what he was about, and then
went on deck.

By this time the noise on shore had become more pronounced, and he saw
the dark forms of several persons on the wharf. Flint and Amblen were
making fast to the nearest schooner, and a couple of seamen had been
sent on shore to cast off the fasts which held her to the wharf. This
was the work of but a moment, and the two men returned to the steamer;
but they were closely followed by two men, one of whom stepped on the
deck of the schooner.

"What are you about here?" demanded the foremost of the men, in a rude
and impertinent manner.

"About our business," replied Christy, with cool indifference.

"Who are you, young man?" demanded the one on the deck.

"I am yours truly; who are you?"

"None of your business who I am! I asked you a question, and you will
answer it if you know when you are well off," blustered the man, who was
rather too fat to be dangerous; and by this time, Christy discovered
that he wore something like a uniform.

"I will try to find out when I am well off, and then I will answer you,"
replied Christy.

"All fast, sir," reported Flint.

The commander of the expedition, turning his back to the fat man, went
forward to the pilot house.




CHAPTER XXVI

THE BATTLE WITH THE SOLDIERS


Mr. Amblen went to the pilot house, and rang two bells. Dolly responded
properly by starting the engine on the reverse, and the schooner
alongside began to move away from the wharf, for the stern of the Havana
pointed out into the bay.

"Stop, there! What are you about?" shouted the fat man on the deck of
the schooner.

"About going," replied Christy.

"These vessels are the property of a citizen of the Confederate States,
and I command you to stop," yelled the fat man with all the voice he
could muster.

"All right," replied Christy, as the gong sounded to stop her. "Now, Mr.
Flint, cast off the fasts, and let the schooner go astern," he added to
the second lieutenant.

"All clear, sir," replied Flint a moment later, and after the steamer
lost her headway, the vessel continued to back, though the Havana was
checked by the engine.

The fat man went adrift in the schooner, but Christy gave no further
attention to him. The steamer was started ahead again; her bow was run
alongside of the other vessel at the wharf, and Flint proceeded in the
same manner as with the first one.

"Orderly!" shouted the fat man, evidently addressing the man who had
come to the schooner with him, and had retreated to the wharf when the
vessel began to move.

"Captain Rowly!" replied the man, who was doubtless the orderly sergeant
of the company.

"Go to the barracks and have the men haul the four field pieces over to
the wharf," yelled the fat captain.

"All right, little one! Have them hauled over by all means," said
Christy, as the men made fast to the other schooner, and cast off the
fasts.

But it was soon evident that the sleepy soldiers had been roused from
their slumbers by some other agency than the orderly, though it was not
quite possible for them to haul over the four guns, as they happened
to be on the forward deck of the Havana. But the men were armed with
muskets, and were capable of doing a great deal of mischief with them.
Christy hurried up the men at the fasts, but they had about finished
their task.

"All clear, Mr. Passford," called Mr. Flint, as the soldiers
double-quicked across the railroad to the wharf, upon which there was
still a huge pile of bales of cotton.

"Back her, Mr. Amblen," said Christy, as he hastened aft to avoid a
collision with the other schooner.

But the tide had begun to recede, and had carried the first vessel to a
safe distance from the wharf.

The soldiers reached the edge of the wharf, and were probably under the
command of the orderly by this time. At any rate they marched farther
down the pier, where they could be nearer to the Havana as she backed
away. Then the troops fired a volley at the steamer; but in the darkness
they did no serious injury to the party, though two seamen were slightly
wounded.

"Cast off the fasts!" shouted Christy, when he realized that some of his
men were in a fair way to be shot down before they could get the two
schooners alongside and properly secured for the trip to the Bronx, and
the order was promptly obeyed. "Now, check her, Mr. Amblen;" and two
bells were sounded on the gong, after one to stop her.

The second schooner kept on her course out into the bay to join the
first one cast loose; but Christy feared that they might get aground,
and give them trouble. The seventeen soldiers whom he had counted in
their bunks appeared to have been reinforced either by the return of the
absent party, or by the civilians in the place, for they presented a
more formidable front than the smaller number could make. Whatever the
number of the defenders of the place, they could harass the expedition
while the men were preparing for the final departure.

"With what were those two guns charged, Mr. Flint?" asked Christy.

"With solid shot, sir," replied the second lieutenant.

"Open fire on the wharf, and then load with the shrapnel," added
Christy.

The two guns, which had been placed in proper position for use on the
top-gallant forecastle, were aimed by Flint himself, and discharged. The
report shook the steamer, and Christy, who retained his position on the
quarter deck, heard a scream of terror, coming from a female, issue from
the companion way, at the head of which a seaman had been placed as a
sentinel over the officers below.

"What was that, Neal?" asked the commander of the expedition.

"It was the scream of a lady, sir, and that is all I know about it,"
replied the man. "I haven't seen any lady, sir, and I think she must
have been asleep so far. The captain tried to come on deck a while ago,
but I sent him back, sir."

By this time the two field pieces had been loaded again, and they were
discharged. Christy watched the effect, and he had the pleasure of
seeing the whole troop on the wharf retire behind the great pile of
bales of cotton. A random fire was kept up from this defence, but the
soldiers were safe behind their impenetrable breastwork. Flint continued
to fire into it.

At the report of the guns, nearly together, which made the Havana shake,
and everything on board of her rattle, for she was not built to carry
a battery of guns, another scream came forth from the companion way.
A moment later, Christy saw a female form ascending the stairs. The
sentinel placed his cutlass across the passage; but the lieutenant told
him to let her come on deck if she desired to do so.

It was light enough for the gallant young officer to see that she was
young and fair, though she had evidently dressed herself in great haste.
She looked around her with astonishment, perhaps to find that the
steamer was no longer at the wharf. The guns on the forecastle were
again discharged, and she shrunk back at the sound.

"Do not be alarmed, miss," said Christy, in his gentlest tones. "But I
must say that you will be safer in the cabin than on deck."

"Will you please to tell me what has happened, sir, or what is going to
happen?" asked the lady; and the listener thought he had never heard a
sweeter voice, though he might not have thought so if he had heard it at
Bonnydale, or anywhere else except in the midst of the din of pealing
guns and the rattling of musketry.

"I can tell you what has happened; but as I am not a prophet, I cannot
so accurately inform you in regard to what is going to happen," he
replied.

"But what has occurred on board of the Havana?" she interposed, rather
impatiently.

"The Havana has been captured by an expedition, of which I have the
honor to be in command, from the United States gunboat Bronx. Just now
we are defending ourselves from an attack of the soldiers in the place.
As to the future, miss, I have no reasonable doubt that we shall be able
to get the steamer and two schooners we have also captured alongside
the Bronx, where all the prizes will be subject to the order of her
commander. Permit me to advise you to retire to the cabin, miss, and
later, I shall be happy to give you all the information in my power,"
said Christy, touching his cap to her, and pointing to the companion
way.

She accepted the advice, and went down the steps. The young officer had
no time then to wonder who and what she was, for he realized that there
was little hope of stopping the desultory firing from behind the cotton
pile; and perhaps by this time the soldiers realized what had become of
their four field pieces, for they knew that the Havana had not been
armed when they loaded her with cotton.

Christy went forward to set the officers at work in picking up the two
prizes, and as he stopped to look down into the engine room, he felt
his cap knocked off his head, and heard the whizzing of a bullet
unpleasantly near his ears. He picked up his cap, and found a bullet
hole through the top of it. If it had gone an inch or two lower, Mr.
Flint would have succeeded to the command of the expedition without any
ceremonies. Though there was no reason for it, this incident seemed to
provoke him, for it assured him that he could not pick up his prizes
without exposing his men to this nasty firing for some time longer.

It was now light enough for him to make out the situation of the
breastwork of cotton, and he saw that it was a long and narrow pile,
probably near a siding of the railroad where the bales had been unloaded
from the cars. Another glance at the surroundings in regard to the point
enabled him to make up his mind what to do, and he did not lose a moment
in putting his plan into execution. The firing of shot and shrapnel at
the cotton pile seemed to produce no adequate effect, and he ordered
Flint to cease his operations.

"Back her, Mr. Amblen," he added to the pilot. "Back her at full speed."

The schooners were doing very well; instead of wandering off into the
bay, they had fallen into the channel, and were drifting with the tide.
Several persons appeared on the deck of each of them, and it was plain
that a portion of the crews had been asleep on board of them. While he
was observing them, he discovered two boats coming out from behind the
point, and making for the two vessels. This movement indicated an
attempt to recapture the prizes.

"Port the helm, Mr. Amblen, and circle around till the bow points in
the direction of those boats coming out from beyond the point," said
Christy. "Mr. Flint, man your guns again at once, and drop some solid
shot into those boats."

The Havana continued to back till the guns would bear on the boats, and
then Flint delivered his fire. The headmost of the boats was smashed,
and was a wreck on the bay. The other hastened to pick up the crew, and
then pulled for the shore with all possible speed, though not till two
other boats, apparently filled with soldiers, were discovered
approaching the retreating boat.

Christy did not wait to dispose of these, but mounted the top-gallant
forecastle, and ordered the guns to be loaded with shells. Then he
waited till the steamer reached a point off the end of the peninsula,
when he gave the order to stop and back her. Sighting the first gun
himself, he directed the man at the lockstring to fire. He waited a
moment for the smoke to clear away, and then, with his glass, he saw
several forms lying on the wharf by the side of the cotton pile. He had
fired so as to rake the rear of this breastwork, and before the soldiers
there understood what he was doing. Those who had not dropped before the
fire were picking up their wounded companions, and retreating with all
practicable haste.

It was not necessary to discharge the other gun, and it was swung round
and brought to bear on the two boats advancing towards the prizes, the
men in which were pulling with the most desperate haste. Flint took
careful aim this time, and the gun was discharged. The shrapnel with
which it was charged did not knock the boat to pieces as a solid shot
might have done, but two of the oars were seen to drop into the water,
and both boats began to retreat, which was quite a proper thing for them
to do in face of such a destructive fire.

There was nothing more to detain the expedition at the place, and the
two prizes were picked up, made fast, one on each side of the Havana,
and then the bell to go ahead was sounded. The pilot then informed
Christy that he had made out the Bronx approaching at a distance of not
more than three miles beyond the Seahorse Key. Probably Captain Blowitt
had heard the guns, and was coming in to assist in the fight.




CHAPTER XXVII

THE INNOCENT CAPTAIN OF THE GARRISON


The firing of the musketry was continued from the end of the point by
a small squad of soldiers, though the most of them seemed to have gone
over to the other side of the peninsula to take part in the attempt to
recapture the schooners with boats, which had utterly failed. It was now
fairly light, the battle had been fought, and the boat expedition had
done all and more than all it had been expected to accomplish.

Christy had hardly expected to do anything more than obtain information
that would enable the Bronx to capture the schooners, and nothing had
been said about the steamer that had been found there. It appeared from
the statement of Captain Lonley that the Havana was the property of his
uncle Homer Passford; and doubtless he had chosen Cedar Keys as a safer
place, at this stage of the war, to send out his cotton than the
vicinity of his plantation.

Christy certainly had no desire to capture the property of his father's
brother rather than that of any other Confederate planter, for he had
had no knowledge of his operations in Florida. But he was quite as
patriotic on his own side as his uncle was on the other side, and as it
was his duty to take or destroy the goods of the enemy, he was not sorry
he had been so fortunate, though he did regret that Homer Passford had
been the principal sufferer from the visit of the Bronx to this coast.

The planter had now lost three schooners and one steamer loaded with
cotton; but Christy was satisfied that this would not abate by one jot
or tittle his interest in the cause he had espoused. The young man did
not think of such a thing as punishing him for taking part in the
rebellion, for he knew that Homer would be all the more earnest in his
faith because he had been a financial martyr on account of his devotion
to it.

The Havana, with one of the schooners on each side of her, was steaming
slowly down the channel, and the Bronx was approaching at a distance
of not more than three miles. For the first time since he obtained
possession of the prizes, he had an opportunity to look them over, and
collect his thoughts. From the very beginning of the enterprise he had
been extremely anxious in regard to the result.

His orders had been to obtain all the information he could in regard to
the position of the vessels that were reported to be at this port, and
to do anything the circumstances would permit without incurring too
much risk. The adventure had been full of surprises from first to last.
Something new and sometimes something strange had been continually
exposed to him, and it looked to him just as though all the preparations
to accomplish the result he had achieved had been made for his coming.

Before the boats went around into the bay, he had been satisfied with
the finding and carrying off of the twelve-pounders. He had hardly
expected to do anything more, and he knew that Captain Blowitt would be
amused as well as pleased at this rather singular feat. The removal of
the four field pieces had rendered the capture of the schooners possible
and even easy, as it would not have been if the order of Captain Rowly
to drag them over to the wharf could have been carried out.

The taking of the Havana had been rather a side incident, hardly
connected with the rest of the affair. Everything had favored the
young commander of the expedition, and he had made good use of his
opportunities, though he had embraced some of them blindly, without
being able to foresee the consequences of his action at the time it was
taken. He had time now to review the events of the morning, and the
result was in the highest degree pleasing to him.

On board of the two schooners the crew had put in an appearance; but
when he inquired of the negroes he learned that the captains of the
vessels were not on board. The mate of each was on deck, and they were
the only white men. On the rail of the one on the port side sat the fat
captain of the garrison of the place. Thus far he had said nothing, and
he appeared to be sitting figuratively on the stool of repentance, for
he had not been faithful to the trust reposed in him.

Dolly had said he had gone to visit a planter who had a daughter;
but this statement did not appear to be true, for he had put in an
appearance early, as the Havana was making fast to the first prize. He
had left his men in the barrack to sleep off their fatigue and apple
jack after their unaccustomed labor in loading the steamer. He had not
so much as posted a sentinel, who might have enabled him to defeat the
invaders of the port, even with his diminished force. If Homer Passford
had been on the spot, his faith in the Providence that watched over his
holy cause might have been shaken.

"Good morning, Captain Rowly," said Christy cheerfully, as he walked up
to the disconsolate captain. "I hope you are feeling quite well."

"Not very well; things are mixed," replied the fat officer, looking down
upon the planks of the deck.

"Mixed, are they?" added Christy.

"I can't see how it all happened," mused the military gentleman.

"How what happened, Captain Rowly?" inquired Christy.

"All the vessels in the place captured, and carried off!" exclaimed the
late commander of the garrison.

"I don't discover the least difficulty in explaining how it all
happened. You were so very obliging as to allow your men to go to sleep
in the barrack without even posting a sentinel at the battery. That made
the whole thing as easy as tumbling off a sawhorse," replied the leader
of the expedition, without trying to irritate the repentant captain of
the forces.

"And, like an infernal thieving Yankee, you went into the fort and stole
the guns!" exclaimed Captain Rowly, beginning to boil with rage as he
thought of his misfortune.

"Well, it did not occur to me that I ought to have waked you and told
you what I was about before taking the guns."

"It was a nasty Yankee trick!" roared the soldier.

"I suppose it was, captain; but we Yankees cannot very well help what
was born in our blood; and I have heard that some of your honest and
high-toned people have made bigger steals than this one. While I have
carried off only four twelve-pounders, your folks have taken entire
forts, including scores of guns of all calibres," replied Christy,
amused at the view the fat gentleman took of his operations.

"Our people took nothing that did not belong to them, for the forts were
within our territory," retorted the soldier.

  [Illustration: Captain Rowly protests.]

"That was just my case. I have the honor to be an officer of the United
States Navy, and as these guns happened to be within the territory of
our government, of course it was all right that I should take them."

"You stole the vessels after I ordered you to stop," muttered Captain
Rowly.

"Precisely so; but, being in a hurry just then, I hadn't time to stop,"
laughed Christy.

"Where are you going now? You knew I was on the deck of this schooner,
and you have brought me off here where I didn't want to come. I am not
used to the water, and I am afraid I shall get sea-sick," continued the
fat officer.

"Perhaps we may be able to provide a nurse for you if you are very
sick."

"Why don't you answer my question, and tell me where you are going?"
demanded the soldier.

"We are going out here a mile or two farther, just to take the air and
get up an appetite for breakfast."

"But I object!"

"Do you indeed?"

"And I protest!"

"Against what?"

"Against being carried off in this way. You knew I was on board of the
schooner."

"I confess that I did know you were on board, though I must add that it
was your own fault."

"I had a right on board of the vessel."

"I don't deny it. You have a sword at your side; but as you neglected to
use it, you will excuse me if I ask you to give it to me," added
Christy, reaching out for the weapon.

"Give you my sword!" exclaimed Captain Rowly.

"It is a formality rather insisted upon on such occasions as the
present."

"I don't see it."

"You don't? Then I must say that I think you are rather obtuse, Captain
Rowly, and I shall be under the painful necessity of helping you to see
it. As a prisoner of war--"

"As what?" demanded the soldier.

"I regard you as a prisoner of war, and I must trouble you to give me
your sword in token of your surrender."

"I was not taken in a battle."

"Very true; your men fought the battle after you had left them. I have
no more time to argue the question. Will you surrender your sword, or
will you have the battle now? Two or three of my men will accommodate
you with a fight on a small scale if you insist upon it."

"Don't you intend to send me back to the Keys?" asked the captain, whose
military education appeared to have been neglected, so that his ideas of
a state of war were very vague.

"I have not the remotest idea of doing anything of the sort. Your sword,
if you please."

"This sword was presented to me by the citizens of my town--"

"Here, Boxie and Lanon, relieve this gentleman of his sword," added
Christy, as he saw the young lady coming up the companion way.

"Oh, I will give it up, if you really say so; but this is a queer state
of things when my sword, presented to me by my fellow-citizens, is to be
taken from me without any warrant of law," said Captain Rowly, as he
handed the sword to Christy, who returned it when it had done its duty
as a token of submission.

The prisoner was marched to the forecastle of the Havana, and put under
guard. Christy walked towards the young lady, who had evidently dressed
herself for the occasion. She was not only young, but she was beautiful,
and the young commander of the expedition was strongly impressed by her
grace and loveliness. He had heard her speak in the gloom of the early
morning, and she had a silvery voice. He could not but wonder what she
was doing on board of a blockade runner.

"Good morning, Miss ---- I have not the pleasure of being able to call
you by name," Christy began as he touched his cap to her, and bowed his
involuntary homage.

"Miss Pembroke," she added.

"I trust you are as comfortable as the circumstances will permit, Miss
Pembroke. I hope you have ceased to be alarmed, as you were when I saw
you before."

"I am not alarmed, but I am exceedingly anxious in regard to the future,
Mr. ----"

"Mr. Passford."

"I only wish to know what is to become of us, Mr. Passford."

"You speak in the plural, Miss Pembroke, as though you were not alone."

"I am not alone, sir; my father, who is an invalid, is in the cabin. The
excitement of this morning has had a bad effect upon him."

"I am sorry to hear it. I suppose you embarked in this steamer with the
desire to reach some other place?"

"We reside in the State of New York, and all that remain of our family
are on board of this steamer, and all we desire is to get home. We have
lived two years in Southern Georgia for my father's health."

Christy thought they would be able to reach New York.




CHAPTER XXVIII

THE BEARER OF DESPATCHES


Christy had assured himself that the father of the beautiful young
lady was a loyal citizen, and then he pointed out to her in what manner
they might reach their home, which was at Newburgh on the Hudson. Mr.
Pembroke was not a wealthy man, though he had the means of supporting
what was left of his family comfortably. But Christy had to ask to be
excused, as the Bronx was but a short distance from the Havana.

He directed Mr. Amblen to stop her, so as to permit the gunboat to
come alongside of her. As the Bronx came within hailing distance of
the steamer towing the schooners, a hearty cheer burst from the crew on
the forecastle of the former, for the prizes alongside of the Havana
indicated the success of the expedition. The sea was smooth, and the
naval steamer came alongside of the port schooner, and Christy, who had
put himself in position to do so as soon as he understood her intention,
sprang lightly on board of her.

Captain Blowitt was on the quarter deck, and the commander of the
expedition hastened into his presence. Of course Christy could not help
realizing that he had been successful, however the circumstances had
aided him, and he felt sure of his welcome.

The commander of the Bronx was a man that weighed two hundred pounds,
and his fat cheeks were immediately distended with laughter as soon as
he saw his executive officer hastening towards him. He almost doubled
himself up in his mirth as he looked into the young man's sober face,
for Christy was struggling to appear as dignified as the importance of
the occasion seemed to require of him. But the commander restrained
himself as much as he could, and extended his hand to the first
lieutenant, which the young man accepted, and received a pressure that
was almost enough to crush his feebler paw. In spite of himself, he
could not help laughing in sympathy with his superior.

"I am sorry you did not bring it all off with you, Mr. Passford," said
Captain Blowitt, as soon as he was able to speak, for his risibles
seemed to have obtained complete control of him.

"I have brought it all off with me, captain," replied Christy, though he
had not yet got at the point of the joke, and spoke at a venture.

"What, the whole State of Florida!" exclaimed the commander.

"No, sir; I did not bring it all off with me, for I did not think it
would be quite safe to do this, for it might set the Gulf Stream to
running in a new course, and derange navigation by making all our charts
useless," replied Christy, smoothing down the muscles of his face so
that he looked as sober as before.

"I thought from the appearance that you had brought it all off," added
Captain Blowitt. "Did I instruct you to bring it off?"

"No, sir; you were considerate enough to say that you did not expect me
to capture the whole State, and therefore I have not done it."

"But we heard heavy guns this morning," continued the commander, putting
on his sober face, for he could be as serious as a judge, though his
adipose structure compelled him to be a great joker at suitable times.
"You had no boat guns."

"No, sir; but we picked up four twelve-pounder field pieces, which you
see, two of them on carriages, on the forecastle of that steamer. We
found the garrison asleep, and we carried off the four guns with which
the battery was mounted. We put them on the Seahorse Key, and went into
the bay to see what was there, sir. We found two schooners, and on the
way we took the steamer. When we were hauling out the two schooners, the
garrison woke up, and attempted to drive us off with musketry. We beat
them off and sunk two boats with the field pieces. This is my report in
brief."

"And a very good report it is, Mr. Passford. I did not expect you to do
anything more than bring off full information in regard to the situation
at the port," added Captain Blowitt.

"But you ordered me to do anything I could to prepare the way for a
visit from the Bronx," suggested Christy.

"And you have prepared the way by bringing off everything at the port,
so that there is nothing for the Bronx to do there," said the commander
with a smile.

"When I found that the garrison were all asleep, I thought it was
my duty not to lose the opportunity that was thus presented to me.
Everything was in our favor, and I was led to do one thing after another
till there was nothing more to do. I found that Captain Lonley, the
worthy gentleman who had made prisoners of Mr. Flint and myself on Santa
Rosa Island, was in command of the steamer. He was not glad to see me;
and from him I learned that the Havana, which is her name, belonged to
my uncle Homer; and so did the schooners."

"Then your uncle has a heavy charge against you, for you have now taken
four of his vessels."

"Possibly the Confederate government is behind him in this operation.
I don't know; but I am sure that the loss of every dollar he has in the
world would not change his views in regard to the justice of his cause.
But, Captain Blowitt, there are on board of the Havana a gentleman and
his daughter, who reside in Newburgh. He is an invalid and a loyal
citizen," continued Christy, as he happened to see Miss Pembroke on the
quarter deck of the steamer.

"They wish to go home, I suppose, and there will soon be an opportunity
for them to do so," replied the captain, as he went with his lieutenant
to take a look at the prizes.

He gave particular attention to the Havana, which it was said had been
built to run between Cedar Keys and the port for which she had been
named, in connection with the railroad. She appeared to be a good vessel
of about four hundred tons, which was as large as the navigation of the
channel to the port would permit. She was not fit for war purposes in
her present condition, and Captain Blowitt decided to send her to New
York. Most of the hands on board of the three prizes were negroes, who
were too happy to go to the North.

"Sail, ho!" shouted the lookout on board of the Bronx, while the
commander was still discussing his plans with Christy.

"Where away?" demanded the captain.

"Coming down from the northwest," reported a quartermaster.

Captain Blowitt hastened on board of the Bronx, for it did not yet
appear whether the vessel was a friend or an enemy. She was a steamer,
and she left a thin streak of black smoke in the sky, which indicated
that her coal came from British territory.

The Havana and the schooners were left in charge of Mr. Amblen, after
the prisoners had been properly disposed of in safe places. Mr. Spinnet,
the second assistant engineer, was sent on board of her, for the
commander had not full confidence in Dolly, though he permitted him to
remain as assistant. The boats used by the expedition were hoisted up to
the davits, and the first and second lieutenants were ordered to return
to the Bronx, and only six seamen were left on board to guard the
prisoners, of whom Lonley was the only dangerous one, at all likely to
make trouble.

The Bronx steamed off at her best speed in the direction of the
approaching steamer, which appeared to be fast, and to be of that
peculiarly rakish class of vessels of which there were so many engaged
in the business of blockade running. She was examined by the officers
with their glasses; but they were unable to make her out. Her ensign was
set on a stern pole; but they could not see whether it was the American
or the Confederate flag.

"What do you make of her, Mr. Passford?" asked the captain, as they
watched her advance over the smooth sea.

"She is or has been a blockade runner, and that is all I can make out of
her," replied Christy.

"She may have run the blockade, fitted in Mobile or some other port as a
cruiser, and come out to do what mischief she can. We may have to fight
for our prizes, but the splinters will fly before she gets them away
from us," said Captain Blowitt, who watched the steamer with an anxious
look on his face, resolute as he was in the discharge of his duty. "She
is considerably larger than the Bronx."

"As I make her out, she looks something like the Ocklockonee and the
Escambia, which we sent to New York, though they had but one smokestack
each while this one has two. They were about five hundred tons; and I
should think this vessel was of very nearly the same size," added
Christy.

"Flies the American flag, sir," reported a quartermaster who had been
sent into the main rigging to observe her.

"That may be a trick," said the captain, "though I hardly think it is,
for she is larger than the Bronx, and need not resort to tricks."

A little later, she began to hoist her signals on the foremast where
they could be plainly seen. Mr. Flint made them out to the effect that
the steamer had orders for the Bronx. This settled the question, and
there was no more anxiety in regard to her, and there was to be no sea
fight for the possession of the prizes.

In less than half an hour the two steamers were within hailing distance
of each other, and the stranger sent off a boat with an officer as soon
as both vessels had stopped their screws and lost their headway. As
Christy watched the approaching boat, he recognized the chief engineer
of the Bellevite in the stern sheets. It was Paul Vapoor, his old
friend and crony, who waved his cap as soon as he discovered the
first lieutenant. The boat came to the side, and Paul mounted the
accommodation ladder. He was a demonstrative young man, and he embraced
Christy as though he had been a Frenchman, as soon as he reached the
deck. He touched his cap to Captain Blowitt, and then delivered several
huge envelopes to him, and also a despatch bag.

"Bearer of despatches, sir," said the chief engineer of the Bellevite.

"I see you are, Mr. Vapoor. If you will make yourself at home on board
of the Bronx, I will read these papers in my cabin," said the captain,
as he went below.

"I think Mr. Passford and I shall not waste any time while you are
engaged, captain," replied Mr. Vapoor.

Certain personal and social matters had to be spoken of, and Paul had
to ask about Florry Passford first, and Christy's father and mother
afterwards, though there was no news to tell.

"What are those vessels off there, Christy?" asked Paul, pointing to the
Havana and the schooners.

"They are our prizes," replied the first lieutenant.

"Did you have to fight for them?"

"A little, not much. What steamer is that in which you came, Paul?"

"Our prize," replied Paul, with a smile as though he knew more than he
was permitted to tell. "We had an awful fight to get her; but we got her
all the same. Poor Mr. Dashington was badly wounded, and he may not get
over it."

"I am sorry to hear that. Where was the fight?" asked Christy.

"About a hundred miles off the entrance to Mobile Bay. We were sent to
look out for her on account of our speed. She came out, and seemed to
think she was going to have her own way. We overhauled her, and captured
her by boarding."

"Captain Blowitt wishes to see Lieutenant Passford and Mr. Vapoor in his
cabin," said Dave, coming up to them at this moment; and both of them
hastened to obey the summons.

"Take seats, gentlemen," said the commander, as he pointed to chairs
at the table at which he was seated. "I am ordered back to the Bellevite
as first lieutenant, for poor Dashington has been seriously wounded.
Mr. Passford is ordered to New York in the Vixen, which brings these
despatches, for she must be condemned. Mr. Flint is ordered to the
temporary command of the Bronx, though I am unable to understand why it
is made temporary. You are to convoy several vessels at Key West in the
Vixen, which is fully armed, and has a sufficient crew."

Christy was never more astonished in all his life.




CHAPTER XXIX

THE NEW COMMANDER OF THE VIXEN


"Have I done anything to offend the flag-officer, or has he no
confidence in me?" asked Christy, who heard in utter surprise that he
was ordered to New York in command of the Vixen.

"Certainly not, Mr. Passford," replied Captain Blowitt, with a
deprecatory smile which was almost enough to satisfy the young officer.
"What could have put such an idea as that into your head?"

"It looked to me just as though I was sent away simply as a prize-master
because my services were not needed down here where there is fighting,
and is likely to be a great deal more of it," added Christy, not yet
quite satisfied. "Perhaps I am banished for the crime of audacity."

"That is a little too bad, Christy," said the commander, shaking his
head. "I promised not to use that word again, and you ought not to twit
me for it, for it was only a pleasantry on my part."

"It was the farthest thing in the world from my mind to twit you for the
word; I was only afraid that they considered me an imprudent officer on
board of the flagship. I beg your pardon, Captain Blowitt, and I will
never again remind you of the conversation we had on the subject of
audacity," answered Christy, rising from his chair and taking the
commander by the hand.

"It is all right, Christy, my dear fellow," replied the captain, coming
down from the dignified manner of the navy. "I think we understand each
other perfectly, and I don't wish to part with the shadow of a shadow
between us. We have sailed together too long to be anything but the best
of friends; and the fate of poor Dashington reminds me that we may never
meet again in this world."

"Whatever you say and whatever you do, Captain Blowitt, we can never
be anything but the best of friends, and, so far as you are concerned,
I never had an instant of doubt or suspicion."

"Now, Christy," interposed Paul Vapoor, "you entirely mistake the motive
which has led to your appointment to the Vixen, for I happen to know
something about it. You are not sent simply as a prize-master to New
York, but you are put in temporary command of the Vixen because an able,
vigilant, courageous officer was required."

"Then I wonder all the more that I was selected," added Christy.

"You wonder!" exclaimed Paul, looking intently into the brown face of
the young officer, apparently to discover if there was not some
affectation in this manifestation of modesty.

There was nothing like affectation in the composition of Christy
Passford, and whatever he had done to distinguish himself, he had done
strictly in the line of his duty, and from the purest of patriotic
motives. It was the most difficult thing in the world to make him
believe that he had done "a big thing," though all others on board
of his ship believed it with all their might. Paul Vapoor knew what
everybody thought of his friend, and he was surprised that he should be
so innocent and ignorant of the great reputation he had won.

"I do wonder," replied Christy, earnestly and honestly. "I believe I
am about the youngest officer in the fleet, and if this service requires
an able officer, it seems very strange to me that I should have been
selected."

"Captain Breaker was consulted in regard to you, though he was not asked
to name a commander, for the flag-officer had thought of you himself,
and no doubt he had just been reading your report of your voyage to the
Gulf in the Bronx," said Paul, laughing. "I don't see how he could do
otherwise than select you, Christy."

"You are chaffing me, Paul, as you do sometimes," said Christy with a
smile.

"Then the expression of my honest opinion, which is also the opinion
of every other officer in the ship, is chaffing you," retorted the
engineer.

"I am satisfied; and I am sorry I said a word," added the subject of all
these remarks.

"It is a very important and responsible situation to which you are
ordered, Mr. Passford," said Captain Blowitt, putting on his dignity
again. "Not a few steamers fitted up in part for service as Confederate
men-of-war, in spite of neutrality treaties, are expected on the coast.
You have diminished the number by two, and I hope you will be able to
make a still further reduction of that fleet. We have three vessels to
send on for condemnation, and your orders will inform you that there
are several others, including another steamer, at Key West; and a
Confederate armed steamer could easily recapture the whole of them. You
will have to protect a fleet of at least seven vessels; and this command
ought to satisfy your ambition. You will also have charge of a despatch
bag, to be forwarded to Washington at once; and this must not fall into
the hands of the enemy. Sink or burn it if you are captured."

"I don't intend to be captured," added Christy with a smile.

"I remember that you were taken by the enemy on one occasion, and
misfortunes may come to the best of officers. You must get ready to sail
at once; but you must write your report of your expedition before you
leave," added Captain Blowitt, as he rose from his chair, and the trio
left the cabin.

Christy gaped several times during the latter part of the interview, for
he had not slept a wink during the preceding night. He went to the ward
room and began to write his report, while the Bronx and the Vixen
proceeded towards the three vessels which had been captured. It was well
that they did so, for as they approached the Havana and her consorts
they discovered quite a fleet of boats coming out from behind the
Seahorse Key, evidently intending to recapture the prizes in the absence
of the gunboat. They retired at once as she approached.

Christy was a rapid writer, and his report was soon finished, for the
subject was still very fresh in his mind, and he never attempted to
do any "fine writing." He had packed his valises, and he took an
affectionate farewell of the captain, Flint, and Sampson, as well as the
ship's company in a more general way, though he said he expected to be
back again in a few weeks. The Vixen's boat was waiting for him, and he
embarked in it with Paul Vapoor. In a few minutes he ascended to the
deck of the steamer, and the side was manned at his appearance. He was
presented to the officers of the ship by the engineer, and all three of
them were older men than Christy, though he was their senior in rank,
for his commission had been dated back to his enlistment in the navy.

Every one of the officers was a stranger to Christy, though there were a
few men who had served in the Bellevite, but not in her original crew.
With the customary proceedings he took command of the Vixen, and he
found from sundry remarks made to him or dropped in his hearing that his
reputation was already established on board. He directed the executive
officer to follow the Bronx. In a short time the screw was stopped in
the vicinity of the prizes. The Bronx reclaimed the men left on board of
the Havana, and Captain Lonley was sent on board of the Vixen.

Christy had been down into his cabin, and taken a hasty glance at the
ward room. In addition to his own apartments like those on board of the
Bronx, though they were larger, he found a state room opening from the
foot of the companion way, and another from the passage way leading to
his principal cabin. These two rooms he appropriated to the use of Mr.
Pembroke and his daughter, though they were very well provided for on
board of the Havana. They were invited on board, and gratefully accepted
the accommodations tendered to them.

Mr. Amblen was to retain the place assigned to him as prize-master, and
two competent men were found to take charge of the schooners. All the
arrangements were completed in a couple of hours, and the prizes of the
Bronx were started at once. The negroes were employed in transferring
the deckload of the Havana to the holds of the schooners, which were not
quite full.

The engineer of the Bellevite was to return to her in the Bronx, and he
shook hands at parting with Christy, giving him a letter to Miss Florry
Passford; and even her brother could not help seeing that he was greatly
interested in her. Three rousing cheers went up from the Bronx as the
screw of the Vixen began to turn, and she started on her voyage.

The new commander, though he was very sleepy, gave his first moments
to an examination of the vessel. The carpenter and his gang were still
engaged in repairing the damage done to her in the engagement with the
Bellevite. She was about the size of the two steamers captured by the
Bronx, and coming out of the small steamer, she seemed quite large.
She carried a midship gun of heavy calibre, and four broadside pieces.
She had a crew of sixty men, besides those employed in the engineer's
department, selected from the fleet, for the mission of the steamer was
regarded as a very important one.

"Your machine looks well, Mr. Caulbolt," said Christy, as he went to the
engine room in making his round with the executive officer.

"I fancy it is as good as can be built on the other side of the water,"
replied the chief engineer.

"Do you know anything in regard to the speed of the Vixen, for that may
be a very important matter with us?" asked the commander.

"I do not know very much yet, sir, but I think she is a fast steamer.
Mr. Vapoor told me that the Bellevite made twenty-two knots in chasing
her, and that no other vessel in the navy could have overhauled her.
He gave me the figures," added Mr. Caulbolt, taking a paper from his
pocket. "I think she is good for eighteen knots when driven hard."

"I dare say that will do," replied Christy, finishing his examination
and retiring to his cabin.

He found Mr. Pembroke and his daughter there. The young lady presented
him to her father, who appeared to be about fifty years of age. He was
very gentlemanly in his manners, and thanked the captain heartily for
the courtesy and kindness with which he had been treated. Later in the
voyage he learned that Mr. Pembroke's wife and son had been killed some
years before in a railroad accident, and that the money recovered from
the corporation was about his only fortune. Miss Bertha, as her father
called her, had been educated to become a teacher, but when his health
failed, she had devoted herself wholly to him. They had gone to Georgia
just before the war, and had lived in the pine woods nearly two years.

"My health is very much improved, and the genial climate just suited my
case; but in the present situation, I had rather die at home than live
in the South," said the invalid in conclusion.

"Father is ever so much better than when we came to Georgia," added
Bertha.

Christy looked at her, and he had never seen a young lady before who
made such a decided impression upon him. Of course the reason for this
was that she was so dutiful and devoted to her sick father, for not
every young and beautiful maiden would have been so entirely unselfish
as she was. The commander could not help looking at her till he made her
blush by the intensity of his gaze, and after all, it is possible that
Christy was as human as other young men of his age. He had never been so
affected before, and he hardly knew what to make of it; but he concluded
that it was not because she was so pretty, but because she was so good,
and so devoted to her father.

In due time the Vixen and her convoy reached Key West. He found only two
schooners and a steamer, all loaded with cotton, awaiting his coming,
for two others had been sent with another steamer. Christy went on board
of them, and as the sea was smooth, he arranged them as he had the
others, though tow lines were ready in case of need, and the fleet
sailed for the North.




CHAPTER XXX

THE ACTION WITH A PRIVATEER STEAMER


Christy had made up his lost sleep. On the first day out he had taken
Captain Lonley's word that he would not interfere with anything on
board, and had then given him a berth in the ward room, where he messed
with the officers. Captain Rowly had also been taken on board, and as he
was a captain in the Confederate army, innocent as he was, he demanded
similar accommodations. His request was granted, but Christy decided to
leave him at Key West, for the ward room was full.

The fleet continued on its voyage after the call at the Florida port,
and was soon in the Gulf Stream. It was an exceedingly quiet time in the
little fleet of vessels, though the drill on board of the Vixen was
closely followed up. On the second day they had a mild gale, and the
schooners were cast off, and towed astern, one behind the other.

Then the weather was fine again, though the sea was still too rough for
the Havana and the Aleppo to tow the prizes alongside. Christy observed
the drill a great deal of the time, and Bertha Pembroke was often his
companion. He told her all about vessels in the navy, explained actions
at sea, but hoped she would not be permitted to see one.

Then he related to her the experience of the Bellevite as a yacht and
_as_ a naval vessel, and no one ever had a more attentive listener.
He could not conceal it from himself that he was deeply interested in
the young lady, and observers would have said that she was not less
interested in him. On the fifth day out from Key West, while they were
thus agreeably occupied, there was a hail from the fore rigging.

"Sail, ho!" shouted the lookout on the fore crosstrees, where the
prudence of the commander required a hand to be stationed at all times,
day and night.

"Where away?" called Scopfield, the third lieutenant, who was the
officer of the deck.

"Broad on the starboard bow," replied the lookout.

"Can you make it out?"

"A steamer, sir; black smoke behind her," responded the lookout.

Mr. Fillbrook had joined the third lieutenant by this time, and the
former reported to the captain. Christy had heard all that had passed,
and he immediately began to feel a heavy anxiety in regard to the sail.

"What do you think of her, Mr. Fillbrook?" he asked, after the executive
officer had reported to him.

"There are so many steamers coming over from British ports about this
time, bound to Confederate ports, that it is not very difficult to guess
what she is," replied the first lieutenant. "She is either a blockade
runner, or a steamer fitted out to prey upon the commerce of the United
States."

"That seems to be plain enough; and from the position in which we find
her, she has come out of the Bermudas, or is bound there," added the
commander. "Bring my glass from my state room," he continued to his
cabin steward, who was sunning himself on the deck.

When it was brought, the captain and the executive officer went forward
and mounted the top-gallant forecastle. Mr. Fillbrook procured a glass
from the pilot house, and both of them looked long and earnestly at the
speck in the distance. The steamer was hull down, and they soon agreed
that she was bound to the eastward.

"We have no business with her at present," said Christy, as he shut up
his glass.

"But I have no doubt she has already run the blockade, and came out of
Wilmington or Savannah. If that is the case, she must be loaded with
cotton, which contains a fortune at the present time within a small
compass," replied Mr. Fillbrook, who had not been as fortunate as some
others in the matter of prizes.

"Very likely," replied Christy, rather coldly, his companion thought.
"I do not think I should be justified in giving chase to her, which
could only be done by abandoning the convoy."

"Could we not pick up the convoy after we had captured the steamer?"
asked the first lieutenant.

"Yes, if some Confederate cruiser does not pick it up in our absence,"
replied Christy, with a significant smile.

Mr. Fillbrook was evidently very much disappointed, not to say
disgusted, with the decision of Captain Passford; but he was too good an
officer to make a complaint, or utter a comment. The ship's company had
become somewhat excited when it was announced that a sail, with black
smoke painting a long streak on the blue sky, was made out. If it was a
blockade runner, with a cargo of cotton, it meant a small fortune to
each officer, seaman, and others on board.

The new commander had a reputation as a daring leader, and the hopes of
the officers and men ran high. They waited eagerly to have the steamer
headed to the eastward; but no such order was given, and the chins of
all hands began to drop down.

Christy had no interest in the money value of a prize, and yet he could
understand the feeling of his ship's company. He was an heir of a
millionaire, and he had no occasion to trouble his head about the
profits of a capture. He looked at the question from a purely patriotic
point of view, and every prize secured was so much taken from the
resources of the enemy.

He saw the disappointment painted on the face of the first lieutenant,
and he went to his cabin to consider his duty again, and review the
reasoning that had influenced him; but he came to the conclusion he had
reached in the beginning. He was in charge of six vessels loaded with
cotton, and the ship's company of the Bronx and other vessels had an
interest in their cargoes. The Vixen was less than a hundred and fifty
miles from the coast, and a tug boat, with a bow gun and a crew of
twenty-five, could come out and capture the whole fleet without the
least difficulty. The risk was too great, and the commander was as firm
as a rock.

The next morning, before it was daylight, Mr. Bangs the second
lieutenant, who had the mid watch, sent a messenger to the commander
to inform him that a sail was made out, which appeared to be a steamer,
on the starboard bow, very broad, nearly on the beam. Christy dressed
himself in a great hurry, and hastened on deck. It was beginning to be a
little light, and the steamer appeared to be about five miles to the
eastward of the Vixen, and was headed towards her.

Christy at once concluded that the vessel meant mischief, and he
promptly gave the order to beat to quarters. He thought it must be the
steamer seen the day before, as she could hardly be a blockade runner
for the reason that she was headed towards the fleet. If she desired to
break through the blockading squadron, she would be likely to keep as
far as possible from anything that might be an armed vessel.

Christy went to his state room to write an order for Mr. Amblen in the
Havana, which was hardly a cable's length from the Vixen on the port
side, the Aleppo being ahead of her. He had already given his general
orders to the prize masters, but this was a special one. In the cabin he
found Bertha, who had been awakened by the tramping of the men on deck.

"Pray what is the matter, Captain Passford?" she asked, evidently
somewhat alarmed.

"Nothing is the matter yet, Miss Pembroke, but something may be the
matter within an hour or two, for there is a sail making for us,"
replied Christy with the smile he always wore when she spoke to him, or
he to her. "In other words there may be an action, for I must defend my
convoy."

"Is there any danger?" she inquired.

"Of course there is, for a shot may come through the side of the ship
anywhere and at any time. But I have thought of this matter, and I
propose to put you and your father on board of the Havana until after
the danger is passed. Be kind enough to get ready as soon as possible."

Christy wrote his order, and hastened on deck with it. Hailing the
Havana, he ordered the prize-master to send a boat on board. When it
came the two passengers were embarked in it and the order sent. The
commander did not wait a moment to watch the receding form of the
maiden, but immediately directed his attention to the steamer
approaching the Vixen.

"Run for that steamer, Mr. Fillbrook," said he, after his first glance.

"Make the course east by north, Mr. Bangs," added the first lieutenant.

"East by north," repeated the quartermaster at the wheel when the order
reached him.

"I have just been aloft, and she flies the Confederate flag, Captain
Passford," said Mr. Fillbrook. "She is a large steamer, and she is by no
means as jaunty as the Vixen."

Both steamers were going at full speed, and it required but a short time
to bring them near enough together for something to happen. She was well
down in the water, and appeared as though she might be loaded with
something besides the appliances of a man-of-war. She looked as though
she might be twice as large as the Vixen, and it was soon evident that
her speed was nothing to boast of. She certainly was not one of the
high-flyer yachts which had been bought up for service in the
Confederate navy.

When the two vessels were not more than a mile apart, a column of smoke
rose from her waist, as she swung around so that her great gun could be
brought to bear, and a shot dropped into the water at least an eighth of
a mile short of the Vixen.

"Thank you, sir!" exclaimed Christy. "Half speed, if you please, Mr.
Fillbrook."

The commander went to the long English gun in the waist, to which he had
already given a great deal of study, and sighted along the heavy piece.
He had not forgotten when he pointed the gun on board of the Bellevite,
the shot from which had disabled the Vampire, and he had some confidence
in his ability to put a shot where he wished it to go, for he had
brought all his mathematics and all his physics to bear on the matter,
though the best gunners must sometimes fail. When he was ready he gave
the word to fire. The ship was shaken by the heavy report, and every one
waited with peculiar interest for the smoke to clear away, because the
captain had pointed the gun.

Christy had ordered the screw to be stopped, and had waited till the
steamer lost her headway. She rolled but slightly, and he had allowed
for everything. Glasses were in demand, and a moment later there was a
shout went up from the men at the gun, followed by another from the rest
of the crew. The shot had upset the great gun on the deck of the enemy.
She was swinging round, and beginning to fire her broadside guns, but
the shots came nowhere near the Vixen. Christy did not believe there was
any naval officer on board of that steamer.

"Keep up the fire with the long gun, Mr. Fillbrook," said the commander,
in a low tone, and with no excitement apparent in his manner, for he
always studied and labored to appear cool and self-possessed, whether he
was so or not, and there was nothing in the present situation to try him
in the least.

For a full hour the long gun of the Vixen continued to pelt the enemy
with solid shot, about every one of them hulling her or carrying away
some of her spars. Her mainmast had gone by the board, and the
resistance she was making was becoming very feeble.

"She is full of men, Captain Passford," said Mr. Fillbrook, when the
steamer seemed to be almost a wreck.

"I observed that she had a large crew some time ago, and it is better to
knock her to pieces than to board her," replied Christy. "Keep her as
far off as she is now."

The enemy tried to get nearer to the Vixen, but failed to do so.




CHAPTER XXXI

A SHORT VISIT TO BONNYDALE


The firing was continued from the long gun, though only at intervals
that would permit any signals to be seen on board of the enemy. When it
looked as though there would soon be nothing left of her, she hauled
down the Confederate flag at her fore, where she had hoisted it when the
mainmast went over. The order to go ahead was given, and in a short time
the Vixen was alongside of her.

"Do you surrender?" asked Christy, mounting the rail of his ship.

"We do; there is not much left of the steamer, and I am not justified
in throwing away the lives of my men," replied a very spruce-looking
officer.

"You will board her, Mr. Fillbrook, with the first division, and take
possession of her," said Christy, when he had received the captain's
answer. "Ascertain her condition as soon as possible."

The steamer proved to be the Pedee, formerly the Carnfield, Captain
Linden. She had run the blockade with a valuable cargo, which more than
paid the cost of the vessel, and was then loaded with cotton, and armed
for her own protection, as well as to capture anything that fell in her
way. She had a crew of eighty men to do her fighting, and the commander
confidently expected to pick up a better steamer than the Pedee, to
which the greater portion of the ship's company were to be transferred.

"I saw your steamer yesterday afternoon," said the captain; "but she had
several other vessels near her, and I thought she might have a whole
blockading squadron with her. I kept off, and put about in the night.
When I saw the Vixen early this morning, I thought she would just answer
my purpose, and I wanted her. A nearer view of her assures me she is
exactly the steamer I needed."

"For your sake, captain, I am sorry I cannot accommodate you," replied
Christy, laughing at the cheerful expressions of Captain Linden.
"I presume you are an officer of the Confederate Navy?"

"No, sir; I am not; but I am a Confederate to the backbone. It was my
intention to set up a navy on my own hook. The Pedee was the first
vessel, and I intended that the Vixen should be the second, and become
my flag-ship."

"Then you came out as a privateer?"

"That's just the color of it. If you hadn't unhorsed my big gun I should
have been as polite to you about this time as you are to me. The fact of
it is, Captain Passford, you did not manage your ship just right."

"Indeed? In what respect?" asked Christy.

"Well, you see, you knocked my big gun all to pieces, and then, instead
of running down and boarding the Pedee, you stood off out of range of my
side guns, and knocked the starch all out of us. If you had only boarded
us, I could have whipped you out of your boots, for I have got the
greatest crowd of fighting dogs that was ever hitched up together."

"Of course I was not aware of your views in regard to the manner in
which I ought to have managed the affair on my own part, and therefore I
could not handle my ship just as you desired," replied Christy. "As it
is, I am afraid you will have to start your navy over again."

Mr. Fillbrook had by this time driven the "fighting dogs" forward, and
taken full possession of the prize. On examination, Christy found that,
though the Pedee had been terribly battered in her upper works, she was
not materially injured below the water line. He sent for Mr. Caulbolt,
and required him to inspect the engine, which was not injured in any
important part.

Captain Linden had three times attempted to get nearer to the Vixen with
the intention of boarding her, but Christy preferred to fight the battle
at long range under the circumstances, and he had preserved his distance
from the enemy. He had discovered that she had a large crew, and he was
vastly more prudent than most of his critics gave him the credit of
being. He was surprised, after examining the Pedee, that the captain had
hauled down his flag, for the steamer could have stood a good deal more
pounding without being used up. He concluded that Captain Linden was
full of fight, but, for the want of a naval education, he had not fully
comprehended his situation.

It was deemed advisable to transfer one half of the Pedee's crew of
"fighting dogs" to the Vixen, as she was not encumbered with any
prisoners to speak of, and this was effected without any delay. Mr.
Scopfield, the third lieutenant, was appointed prize-master, and
instructed to keep as near as practicable to the Vixen on the voyage.
Captain Linden and his principal officers were allowed to remain on
board. An assistant engineer and two first-class firemen, on their way
to New York for examination and promotion, were sent on board of the
prize. The two steamers were soon under way, and then it was ascertained
that the Pedee's ordinary rate of sailing did not exceed ten knots, and
it was not probable that she would be bought into the navy.

The fleet of prize vessels had continued on its course to the north, and
was soon overhauled by the Vixen and her capture. The progress of the
fleet was very slow, for the Aleppo, which was said to have a speed of
ten knots, did very badly towing two steamers. Mr. Pembroke and Bertha
were sent on board of the Vixen, and the young lady blushed beautifully
when Christy welcomed her return.

Possibly she had feared he might be killed in the action, and had
worried about him till his return in safety, with the prize alongside
his ship. Her father was very cordial in his congratulations to the
young commander, and even said that he and his daughter had prayed that
he might not be killed or injured in the conflict; and Bertha blushed
all the more when he said it.

Mr. Scopfield was instructed to take one of the schooners of the Aleppo
in tow. Five men had been killed on board of the Pedee, and her surgeon
had more than he could do with at least twenty wounded men. Dr. Appleton
was sent on board of her to assist him. The fleet thus reorganized got
under way, and it was found that the log gave better results after the
change. Fortunately no enemy interfered with its progress, for Christy
felt that his hands were already full.

In the early days of the month of May, he sailed into New York harbor
with his fleet of eight vessels, though only three of them were the
prizes of the Bronx. He had been absent hardly a month; though he had
something to show for the time he had been employed. The vessels were
delivered over to the authorities, and the young commander obtained
leave of absence to visit his mother and sister at Bonnydale, for his
father came on board of the Vixen as soon as he heard the news of her
arrival in command of his son.

Captain Passford, Senior, was conducted to the cabin of Captain
Passford, Junior, and the meeting of father and son was very
affectionate and very demonstrative. Mr. Pembroke and his daughter
were presented to the commander's father, and after they had talked over
the incidents of the return voyage, the former owner of the Bellevite
suspected that relations were altogether pleasant between Christy and
Bertha.

He was greatly pleased with the young lady, and whatever else he
thought, he could not very well help indorsing his son's good taste. In
the course of the subsequent conversation it appeared that Mr. Pembroke
owned a small house at Newburgh, but that the occupant of it had a
three-years' lease of the premises. Captain Passford immediately
extended an invitation to the invalid and his daughter to visit
Bonnydale, which became so pressing that it was finally accepted. In the
afternoon the entire party took the train for the home of the captain.

Christy's welcome was as hearty as though he had come home a commodore.
The visitors were received with a sincere greeting, and Bertha and
Florry were soon fast friends. Even if Christy's father had not dropped
a hint to Mrs. Passford in regard to the fact that his son was at least
tenderly inclined towards the lovely maiden from the South she could not
have failed to notice his attentions to her. Later at night his father
and mother had a long talk over the matter.

"Christy, I have a couple of envelopes for you," said Captain Passford,
as the party seated themselves in the drawing-room after supper.

"Envelopes, father?" asked the young officer curiously. "Base ball or
boat-club business?"

"I should say neither; decidedly not," replied his father, taking the
documents from his pocket, and handing them to him. "They have an
official look, and bear the imprint of the Navy Department."

"What business can the Navy Department have with me now? I have the
honor to be the executive officer of the gunboat Bronx, with the rank of
master, on detached duty as prize-master," added Christy, as he looked
at the ponderous envelopes.

"You can easily answer that question by reading the papers," replied his
father.

"A commission!" exclaimed Christy, as he opened the first one. "I am
promoted to the rank of lieutenant!"

"And, though you are my son, I must say that you deserve the promotion,"
added Captain Passford. "I have read your report of the capture of the
Ocklockonee and the Escambia, and you have won your spurs, my son. I did
not ask for this promotion, or even suggest it to any one."

"Well, I am astonished, confounded, overwhelmed!" exclaimed the young
lieutenant, as we are now permitted to call him. "And the commission is
dated back far enough to put me over the heads of not a few others of
the same rank."

"Perhaps it will please you quite as much when I inform you that the
officers you recommended for appointment as masters have been promoted
to that rank," added the captain.

"I am even more pleased at their promotion than at my own," replied
Christy, opening the other envelope, in which he was addressed as
"Lieutenant Christopher Passford." "Ah, ha!" he exclaimed, leaping out
of his chair in his excitement, to which he gave way on such an occasion
as the present.

"What in the world is the matter with you, Christy?" demanded his
mother, astonished at such an unusual demonstration on the part of her
son.

"I am appointed to the command of the Bronx, in place of Lieutenant
Blowitt, transferred to the Bellevite!" almost shouted the young
officer. "If I could have selected a position for myself, this is the
very one I should have chosen."

"I heard you say as much as that when you were appointed to the
temporary command of the Bronx, and I shall plead guilty of having
inserted a hint where it would do the most good," added Captain
Passford.

"I am much obliged to you, father; for I don't object to that kind of
influence, though I could have commanded the Bronx just as well as a
master, which is the rank of her present temporary commander, Mr. Flint.
I desire to win my own rank, and not get it by influence. I am ordered
to proceed to the Gulf as soon as possible."

In three days he obtained passage in a store-ship steamer; and he spent
all this time at home, as perhaps he would not have done if Bertha
Pembroke had not been there. Before he reported on board of the
store-ship, he visited the Vixen, which was undergoing alterations and
repairs, and took leave of his officers. Before dark he was on board of
the vessel and on his voyage to the scene of his future operations,
where we hope to find him again, doing his best for his whole country,
and true to his motto from the beginning, "STAND BY THE UNION."




OLIVER OPTIC'S BOOKS

+All-Over-the-World Library.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. First Series.
    Illustrated. Price per volume, $1.25.

  1. +A Missing Million+; or, The Adventures of Louis Belgrade.
  2. +A Millionaire at Sixteen+; or, The cruise of the "Guardian
        Mother."
  3. +A Young Knight Errant+; or, Cruising in the West Indies.
  4. +Strange Sights Abroad+; or, Adventures in European Waters.

  No author has come before the public during the present generation
  who has achieved a larger and more deserving popularity among young
  people than "Oliver Optic." His stories have been very numerous,
  but they have been uniformly excellent in moral tone and literary
  quality. As indicated in the general title, it is the author's
  intention to conduct the readers of this entertaining series "around
  the world." As a means to this end, the hero of the story purchases
  a steamer which he names the "Guardian Mother," and with a number of
  guests she proceeds on her voyage.--_Christian Work, N. Y._


+All-Over-the-World Library.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. Second Series.
    Illustrated. Price per volume, $1.25.

  1. +American Boys Afloat+; or, Cruising in the Orient.
  2. +The Young Navigators+; or, The Foreign Cruise of the "Maud."
  3. +Up and Down the Nile+; or, Young Adventurers in Africa.
  4. +Asiatic Breezes+; or, Students on the Wing.

  The interest in these stories is continuous, and there is a great
  variety of exciting incident woven into the solid information which
  the book imparts so generously and without the slightest suspicion
  of dryness. Manly boys will welcome this volume as cordially as they
  did its predecessors.--_Boston Gazette_.


+All-Over-the-World Library.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. Third Series.
    Illustrated. Price per volume, $1.25.

  1. +Across India+; or, Live Boys in the Far East.
  2. +Half Round the World+; or, Among the Uncivilized.
  3. +Four Young Explorers+; or, Sight-Seeing in the Tropics.
  4. +Pacific Shores+; or, Adventures in Eastern Seas.

  Amid such new and varied surroundings it would be surprising indeed
  if the author, with his faculty of making even the commonplace
  attractive, did not tell an intensely interesting story of
  adventure, as well as give much information in regard to the distant
  countries through which our friends pass, and the strange peoples
  with whom they are brought in contact. This book, and indeed the
  whole series, is admirably adapted to reading aloud in the family
  circle, each volume containing matter which will interest all the
  members of the family.--_Boston Budget._


LEE AND SHEPARD, BOSTON, SEND THEIR COMPLETE CATALOGUE FREE.


OLIVER OPTIC'S BOOKS

+The Blue and the Gray--Afloat.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. Six volumes.
  Illustrated. Beautiful binding in blue and gray, with emblematic dies.
  Cloth. Any volume sold separate. Price per volume, $1.50.

  1. +Taken by the Enemy.+
  2. +Within the Enemy's Lines.+
  3. +On the Blockade.+
  4. +Stand by the Union.+
  5. +Fighting for the Right.+
  6. +A Victorious Union.+

+The Blue and the Gray--on Land.+

  1. +Brother against Brother.+
  2. +In the Saddle.+
  3. +A Lieutenant at Eighteen.+
  4. +On the Staff.+
  5. +At the Front.+
  6. +An Undivided Union.+

  "There never has been a more interesting writer in the field of
  juvenile literature than Mr. W. T. ADAMS, who, under his well-known
  pseudonym, is known and admired by every boy and girl in the
  country, and by thousands Who have long since passed the boundaries
  of youth, yet who remember with pleasure the genial, interesting pen
  that did so much to interest, instruct, and entertain their younger
  years. 'The Blue and the Gray' is a title that is sufficiently
  indicative of the nature and spirit of the latest series, while the
  name of OLIVER OPTIC is sufficient warrant of the absorbing style of
  narrative. This series is as bright and entertaining as any work
  that Mr. ADAMS has yet put forth, and will be as eagerly perused as
  any that has borne his name. It would not be fair to the prospective
  reader to deprive him of the zest which comes from the unexpected by
  entering into a synopsis of the story. A word, however, should be
  said in regard to the beauty and appropriateness of the binding,
  which makes it a most attractive volume."--_Boston Budget_.


+Woodville Stories.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. Six volumes. Illustrated.
    Any volume sold separately. Price per volume, $1.25.

  1. +Rich and Humble;+ or, The Mission of Bertha Grant.
  2. +In School and Out;+ or, The Conquest of Richard Grant.
  3. +Watch and Wait;+ or, The Young Fugitives.
  4. +Work and Win;+ or, Noddy Newman on a Cruise.
  5. +Hope and Have;+ or, Fanny Grant Among the Indians.
  6. +Haste and Waste;+ or, The Young Pilot of Lake Champlain.

  "Though we are not so young as we once were, we relished these
  stories almost as much as the boys and girls for whom they were
  written. They were really refreshing even to us. There is much in
  them which is calculated to inspire a generous, healthy ambition,
  and to make distasteful all reading tending to stimulate base
  desires."--_Fitchburg Reveille_.


+The Starry Flag Series.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. In six volumes. Illustrated.
    Any volume sold separately. Price per volume, $1.25.

  1. +The Starry Flag;+ or, The Young Fisherman of Cape Ann.
  2. +Breaking Away;+ or, The Fortunes of a Student.
  3. +Seek and Find;+ or, The Adventures of a Smart Boy.
  4. +Freaks of Fortune;+ or, Half Round the World.
  5. +Make or Break;+ or, The Rich Man's Daughter.
  6. +Down the River;+ or, Buck Bradford and the Tyrants.

  "Mr. ADAMS, the celebrated and popular writer, familiarly known as
  OLIVER OPTIC, seems to have inexhaustible funds for weaving together
  the virtues of life; and, notwithstanding he has written scores of
  books, the same freshness and novelty run through them all. Some
  people think the sensational element predominates. Perhaps it does.
  But a book for young people needs this, and so long as good
  sentiments are inculcated such books ought to be read."


LEE AND SHEPARD, BOSTON, SEND THEIR COMPLETE CATALOGUE FREE.


OLIVER OPTIC'S BOOKS

+Army and Navy Stories.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. Six volumes. Illustrated.
    Any volume sold separately. Price per volume, $1.25.

  1. +The Soldier Boy+; or, Tom Somers in the Army.
  2. +The Sailor Boy+; or, Jack Somers in the Navy.
  3. +The Young Lieutenant+; or, Adventures of an Army Officer.
  4. +The Yankee Middy+; or, Adventures of a Navy Officer.
  5. +Fighting Joe+; or, The Fortunes of a Staff Officer.
  6. +Brave Old Salt+; or, Life on the Quarter Deck.

  "This series of six volumes recounts the adventures of two brothers,
  Tom and Jack Somers, one in the army, the other in the navy, in
  the great Civil War. The romantic narratives of the fortunes and
  exploits of the brothers are thrilling in the extreme. Historical
  accuracy in the recital of the great events of that period is
  strictly followed, and the result is, not only a library of
  entertaining volumes, but also the best history of the Civil War
  for young people ever written."


+Boat Builders Series.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. In six volumes. Illustrated.
    Any volume sold separately. Price per volume, $1.25.

  1. +All Adrift+; or, The Goldwing Club.
  2. +Snug Harbor+; or, The Champlain Mechanics.
  3. +Square and Compasses+; or, Building the House.
  4. +Stem to Stern+; or, Building the Boat.
  5. +All Taut+; or, Rigging the Boat.
  6. +Ready About+; or, Sailing the Boat.

  "The series includes in six successive volumes the whole art of boat
  building, boat rigging, boat managing, and practical hints to make
  the ownership of a boat pay. A great deal of useful information
  is given in this +Boat Builders Series+, and in each book a very
  interesting story is interwoven with the information. Every reader
  will be interested at once in Dory, the hero of 'All Adrift,' and
  one of the characters retained in the subsequent volumes of the
  series. His friends will not want to lose sight of him, and every
  boy who makes his acquaintance in 'All Adrift' will become his
  friend."


+Riverdale Story Books.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. Twelve volumes. Illustrated.
    Illuminated covers. Price: cloth, per set, $3.60; per volume,
    30 cents; paper, per set, $2.00.

  1. +Little Merchant.+       7. +Proud and Lazy.+
  2. +Young Voyagers.+        8. +Careless Kate.+
  3. +Christmas Gift.+        9. +Robinson Crusoe, Jr.+
  4. +Dolly and I.+          10. +The Picnic Party.+
  5. +Uncle Ben.+            11. +The Gold Thimble.+
  6. +Birthday Party.+       12. +The Do-Somethings.+

+Riverdale Story Books.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. Six volumes. Illustrated.
    Fancy cloth and colors. Price per volume, 30 cents.

  1. +Little Merchant.+       4. +Careless Kate.+
  2. +Proud and Lazy.+        5. +Dolly and I.+
  3. +Young Voyagers.+        6. +Robinson Crusoe, Jr.+

+Flora Lee Library.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. Six volumes. Illustrated.
    Fancy cloth and colors. Price per volume, 30 cents.

  1. +The Picnic Party.+      4. +Christmas Gift.+
  2. +The Gold Thimble.+      5. +Uncle Ben.+
  3. +The Do-Somethings.+     6. +Birthday Party.+

  These are bright short stories for younger children who are unable
  to comprehend the +Starry Flag Series+ or the +Army and Navy
  Series+. But they all display the author's talent for pleasing
  and interesting the little folks. They are all fresh and original,
  preaching no sermons, but inculcating good lessons.


LEE AND SHEPARD, BOSTON, SEND THEIR COMPLETE CATALOGUE FREE.


OLIVER OPTIC'S BOOKS

+The Great Western Series.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. In six volumes.
    Illustrated. Any volume sold separately. Price per volume, $1.25.

  1. +Going West;+ or, The Perils of a Poor Boy.
  2. +Out West;+ or, Roughing It on the Great Lakes.
  3. +Lake Breezes;+ or, The Cruise of the Sylvania.
  4. +Going South;+ or, Yachting on the Atlantic Coast.
  5. +Down South;+ or, Yacht Adventures in Florida.
  6. +Up the River;+ or, Yachting on the Mississippi.

  "This is the latest series of books issued by this popular writer,
  and deals with life on the Great Lakes, for which a careful study
  was made by the author in a summer tour of the immense water sources
  of America. The story, which carries the same hero through the six
  books of the series, is always entertaining, novel scenes and varied
  incidents giving a constantly changing yet always attractive aspect
  to the narrative. OLIVER OPTIC has written nothing better."


+The Yacht Club Series.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. In six volumes. Illustrated.
    Any volume sold separately. Price per volume, $1.25.

  1. +Little Bobtail;+ or, The Wreck of the Penobscot.
  2. +The Yacht Club;+ or, The Young Boat Builders.
  3. +Money-Maker;+ or, The Victory of the Basilisk.
  4. +The Coming Wave;+ or, The Treasure of High Rock.
  5. +The Dorcas Club;+ or, Our Girls Afloat.
  6. +Ocean Born;+ or, The Cruise of the Clubs.

  "The series has this peculiarity, that all of its constituent
  volumes are independent of one another, and therefore each story is
  complete in itself. OLIVER OPTIC is, perhaps, the favorite author of
  the boys and girls of this country, and he seems destined to enjoy
  an endless popularity. He deserves his success, for he makes very
  interesting stories, and inculcates none but the best sentiments,
  and the 'Yacht Club' is no exception to this rule."--_New Haven
  Journal and Courier_.


+Onward and Upward Series.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. In six volumes.
    Illustrated. Any volume sold separately. Price per volume, $1.25.

  1. +Field and Forest;+ or, The Fortunes of a Farmer.
  2. +Plane and Plank;+ or, The Mishaps of a Mechanic.
  3. +Desk and Debit;+ or, The Catastrophes of a Clerk.
  4. +Cringle and Crosstree;+ or, The Sea Swashes of a Sailor.
  5. +Bivouac and Battle;+ or, The Struggles of a Soldier.
  6. +Sea and Shore;+ or, The Tramps of a Traveller.

  "Paul Farringford, the hero of these tales, is, like most of this
  author's heroes, a young man of high spirit, and of high aims and
  correct principles, appearing in the different volumes as a farmer,
  a captain, a bookkeeper, a soldier, a sailor, and a traveller. In
  all of them the hero meets with very exciting adventures, told in
  the graphic style for which the author is famous."


+The Lake Shore Series.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. In six volumes. Illustrated.
    Any volume sold separately. Price per volume, $1.25.

  1. +Through by Daylight;+ or, The Young Engineer of the Lake Shore
        Railroad.
  2. +Lightning Express;+ or, The Rival Academies.
  3. +On Time;+ or, The Young Captain of the Ucayga Steamer.
  4. +Switch Off;+ or, The War of the Students.
  5. +Brake Up;+ or, The Young Peacemakers.
  6. +Bear and Forbear;+ or, The Young Skipper of Lake Ucayga.

  "OLIVER OPTIC is one of the most fascinating writers for youth, and
  withal one of the best to be found in this or any past age. Troops
  of young people hang over his vivid pages; and not one of them ever
  learned to be mean, ignoble, cowardly, selfish, or to yield to any
  vice from anything they ever read from his pen."--_Providence
  Press_.


LEE AND SHEPARD, BOSTON, SEND THEIR COMPLETE CATALOGUE FREE.


       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *

Errata Noted by Transcriber:

Invisible punctuation has been silently supplied.

... exclaimed the second lieutenant
  _text reads "exclained"_
... the lee side of the vessel.
  _text reads "vesssel"_
ash cloth and sashes
  _so in original_






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of On The Blockade, by Oliver Optic

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK ON THE BLOCKADE ***

***** This file should be named 18617-8.txt or 18617-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/1/8/6/1/18617/

Produced by Louise Hope, David Garcia, Juliet Sutherland
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Kentuckiana Digital
Library)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

Produced by Louise Hope, David Garcia, Juliet Sutherland
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Kentuckiana Digital
Library)






THE BLUE AND THE GRAY--AFLOAT

Two colors cloth  Emblematic Dies  Illustrated
Price per volume $1.50

  TAKEN BY THE ENEMY
  WITHIN THE ENEMY'S LINES
  ON THE BLOCKADE
  STAND BY THE UNION
  FIGHTING FOR THE RIGHT
  A VICTORIOUS UNION

THE BLUE AND THE GRAY--ON LAND

Two colors cloth  Emblematic Dies  Illustrated
Price per volume $1.50

  BROTHER AGAINST BROTHER
  IN THE SADDLE
  A LIEUTENANT AT EIGHTEEN
  ON THE STAFF
  (Other volumes in preparation)

Any Volume Sold Separately.
Lee and Shepard Publishers Boston




  [Illustration: Mr. Galvinne is Subdued.--Page 166.]




                      The

               BLUE AND THE GRAY

                     Series

                 [Illustration]

                By Oliver Optic

               STAND by the UNION




         _The Blue and the Gray Series_

               STAND BY THE UNION

                       by
                  OLIVER OPTIC

                   Author of
"The Army and Navy Series" "Young America Abroad"
"The Great Western Series" "The Woodville Stories"
"The Starry Flag Series" "The Boat-Club Series"
"The Onward and Upward Series" "The Yacht-Club Series"
"The Lake Shore Series" "The Riverdale Stories"
"The Boat-Builder Series" "Taken by the Enemy"
"Within the Enemy's Lines" "On the Blockade" etc.


                  BOSTON 1896
          LEE AND SHEPARD  PUBLISHERS
10 Milk Street Next "The Old South Meeting House."




      Copyright, 1891, by Lee and Shepard
             _All rights reserved._

              Stand by the Union.




                      To
             My Two Young Friends,

           MISS HELEN CAMPBELL SMITH
                      and
           MISS ANNA ROCKWELL SMITH,

                The Daughters Of
         My Friend Mr. George A. Smith
                  Of Boston,

                  This Volume
          Is Affectionately Dedicated.




PREFACE


"STAND BY THE UNION" is the fourth of "The Blue and Gray Series." As in
the preceding volumes of the series, the incidents of the story are
located in the midst of the war of the Rebellion, now dating back nearly
thirty years, or before any of my younger readers were born. To those
who lived two days in one through that eventful and anxious period,
sometimes trembling for the fate of the nation, but always sustained by
the faith and the hope through which the final victory was won, it seems
hardly possible that so many years have flowed into the vast ocean of
the past since that terrible conflict was raging over so large a portion
of our now united country.

Though it is said that the South "robbed the cradle and the grave" to
recruit the armies of the Confederacy, it is as true that young and old
in the North went forth in their zeal to "Stand by the Union," and that
many and many a young soldier and sailor who had not yet seen twenty
summers endured the hardships of the camp and the march, the broiling
suns, and the wasting maladies of semi-tropical seas, fought bravely and
nobly for the unity of the land they loved, and that thousands of them
sleep their last sleep in unmarked graves on the sea and the land. The
writer can remember whole companies, of which nearly half of the number
could be classed as mere boys. These boys of eighteen to twenty, who
survived the rain of bullets, shot, and shell, and the hardly less fatal
assaults of disease, are the middle-aged men of to-day, and every one
of them has a thrilling story to tell. The boys of to-day read with
interest the narratives of the boys of thirty years ago, and listen with
their blood deeply stirred to the recital of the veteran of forty-five
years, or even younger, who brought back to his home only one arm or
one leg.

In his youth the author used to listen to the stories of several aged
Revolutionary pensioners, one of whom had slept in the snows of Valley
Forge, another who had been confined on board of the Jersey prison-ship,
and a third who had been with Washington at the surrender of Cornwallis.
Not one lives to-day who fought in the battles of the Revolution; but
a multitude of those who trod the battle-fields of the war that was
finished twenty-seven years ago have taken their places, and have become
as interesting to the present generation as the heroes of former wars
were to the fathers and grandfathers of the boys and girls of to-day.

In the official record of a certain regiment recruited up to the full
standard, we find that 47.5 per cent of the non-commissioned officers
and privates were under twenty-one years of age. We find a few in the
list who were only sixteen and seventeen years. In this regiment, we
find two captains only twenty-one years of age, and three lieutenants
who were only twenty. This regiment was exceptional in regard to age,
though we find that over twenty-five per cent of several companies,
taken at random, were under age. Even boys of fourteen and fifteen were
enlisted as musicians, "drummer boys," and served out their full term.
It can, therefore, be truthfully said, that those who were literally
"boys" did their full and fair share in fighting for the Union. Perhaps
even a larger proportion of minors served in the navy than in the army;
and the record of some of them could be recited to prove that in those
days boys became men prematurely, and distinguished themselves by brave
and daring deeds.

The incidents of the story contained in this volume are suggested by
actual occurrence during the Rebellion, though they are not absolutely
historical details, but are as probable as many real events of the war.
The enemy were busy in some of the Northern cities, and there were many
daring operations undertaken by them which justify the story in its
principal features. Most of the characters have been introduced in the
preceding volumes of the series; and in the succeeding volume the hero
will be presented in a somewhat different field of action, though in
whatever sphere he moves he will continue to be engaged in "FIGHTING
FOR THE RIGHT."

  Dorchester, Mass., April 23, 1891.




CONTENTS



CHAPTER I.
A Mysterious Visitation                                   15

CHAPTER II.
The Absconding Man-servant                                26

CHAPTER III.
Christy Passford is utterly confounded                    37

CHAPTER IV.
The Sick Officer in the Stateroom                         48

CHAPTER V.
Lieutenant Passford and his Apparent Double               59

CHAPTER VI.
The Conference in the Captain's Cabin                     70

CHAPTER VII.
The Announcement of the Decision                          81

CHAPTER VIII.
The Prisoner of War                                       92

CHAPTER IX.
A Moral Philosopher                                      103

CHAPTER X.
A Change of Quarters in the Confusion                    114

CHAPTER XI.
Laying out a Plan of Operations                          125

CHAPTER XII.
A Lesson in Ordinary Politeness                          136

CHAPTER XIII.
The Opening of the Secret Orders                         147

CHAPTER XIV.
The Affray on the Quarter-deck of the Bronx              158

CHAPTER XV.
A Rebellious and Prejudiced Prisoner                     169

CHAPTER XVI.
The Disposal of the Prisoners                            180

CHAPTER XVII.
The Second and Third Lieutenants                         191

CHAPTER XVIII.
A Battle on a Small Scale                                202

CHAPTER XIX.
The Skipper of the Sloop Magnolia                        213

CHAPTER XX.
An Expedition to St. Andrew's Bay                        224

CHAPTER XXI.
A Non-combatant on Board the Bronx                       235

CHAPTER XXII.
The Stranger in the Captain's Cabin                      246

CHAPTER XXIII.
A Very Impudent Declaration                              257

CHAPTER XXIV.
A Critical Situation in the Cabin                        268

CHAPTER XXV.
The Destruction of a Prominent Facial Member             279

CHAPTER XXVI.
The Meeting with the Bellevite at Night                  290

CHAPTER XXVII.
The Planning of an Expedition                            301

CHAPTER XXVIII.
The Negro Village on the Isle Grande Terre               312

CHAPTER XXIX.
A Professional Visit to the Fort                         323

CHAPTER XXX.
The Attack upon the Fort                                 334

CHAPTER XXXI.
A Wounded Commander                                      345




STAND BY THE UNION




CHAPTER I

A MYSTERIOUS VISITATION


"Who's there?" demanded Christy Passford, sitting up in his bed, in the
middle of the night, in his room on the second floor of his father's
palatial mansion on the Hudson, where the young lieutenant was waiting
for a passage to the Gulf.

There was no answer to his inquiry.

"Who's there?" he repeated in a louder tone.

All was as still as it ought to be in the middle of the night, and no
response came to his second inquiry. The brilliant young officer, who
had just passed his eighteenth birthday, knew what it was even better
than an older person to pass a whole night on difficult duty, without
a wink of sleep, for he had been accustomed to spend a portion of every
night in planking the deck on his watch; but at Bonnydale, his quiet
home, far removed from the scenes of actual conflict, he was an
industrious sleeper, giving his whole attention to his slumbers, as a
proper preparation for the stirring scenes in which he was again about
to engage.

He slept soundly; but he had dreamed that some one opened the door of
his room, or some one had actually done so. He was not a believer in
dreams, and when an impression had fastened itself upon his mind, he was
inclined to investigate it. It seemed to him that he had been awakened
from his sleep by the opening of the door of his chamber. Some member of
the family might be sick, and he might be needed to go for the doctor,
or for some other service.

He leaped from his bed when no answer came to his second demand, lighted
his lamp, and put on his trousers. With the light in his hand, he opened
the door; but there was no one there, and not a sound of any kind could
be heard. He walked about the hall in his bare feet, and listened
attentively at the doors of several of the chambers, especially at that
of Mr. Pembroke, the invalid gentleman whom, with his daughter, he had
brought home as a passenger in the captured Vixen.

Christy heard nothing, and he silently descended the stairs to the lower
hall. All was as quiet there as upon the floor above, and he had begun
to think that the impression he had received had been given him in a
dream, though he could not remember that he had been dreaming. But when
he came to the front door, he found it was ajar. It was usually secured
by a spring lock, and those who were liable to be out in the evening
were provided with night-keys.

At the present time his father was in Washington, and he could not have
neglected to close the door. He had been to the railroad station to meet
the last train, thinking it possible that his father might return, and
he was confident that he had been the last to enter the house. He was
very sure that he had not left the door unfastened, and this assurance
made him confident that some person had entered the house. The noise at
the door of his chamber was not an illusion or a dream: though it had
been made by closing rather than by opening it, or he would have been
likely to find the intruder in his room when he lighted his lamp.

It seemed to him to be a matter of course that the midnight visitor had
come into the mansion for the purpose of plundering its occupants, or of
securing the valuables it contained. Putting his lamp on the table, he
went out upon the veranda, and looked all about him. The grounds were
very extensive, and a broad avenue led to the street. It was very dark;
but as he cast his eyes in the direction of the grand entrance to the
estate, he discovered some dark object in motion; but he lost sight of
it in a moment.

It was a living being, or it would not move, and he was certain that he
had made a discovery. Then two regrets flashed through his mind as he
stepped down from the veranda; the first, that he had not put on his
shoes before he left his chamber, and the second, that he had not taken
his pistols, for a bullet would travel a great deal faster than a
barefooted officer, even of the United States Navy. But he ran with all
his speed to the street, to the great detriment of his uncovered feet.

He reached the grand entrance in an exceedingly short space of time;
but he might as well have been in his chamber, for no ruffian, robber,
or Confederate spy could be seen. He had no means of knowing which way
the intruder at the mansion had turned, to the right or the left, or
whether, like the timid colored gentleman in a trying situation, he
had taken to the woods. Christy walked up the street, and then down the
street; but the underbrush had recently been cut in the grove, and he
did not venture to explore it without any protection for his feet.

He peered into the gloom of the night with all his eyes, and listened
with all his ears for over an hour; and then, watchful and careful
officer as he was, there were five hundred chances against him to one
in his favor, of finding the intruder, and he reluctantly returned to
the mansion.

Like the other male occupants of the house, the lieutenant was provided
with a night-key. For one who had only just developed a tolerably
thriving mustache, Christy was a prudent and methodical young gentleman.
As a part of his method, he had a great many small drawers in his rooms,
and a dozen or more keys; but he had never lost them, for the reason
that he carried them chained to his nether garment. But he had two sets
of keys, one for the house, and one for the ship. He had taken the
night-key from the former, and put it in his vest pocket; and when he
reached the front door of the mansion, the key he wanted was in his
chamber, and he had been careful to shut the door when he left the
house.

He could not get in, and he walked around the building to find a window
which had not been closed. His mother had a reasonable dread of robbers,
and she always looked out for the windows before she retired. He did
not wish to arouse the family by ringing the great gong bell, but it was
too cold to spend the rest of the night out-doors in his half-clothed
condition, for he was as liable to take a severe cold as any less
brilliant individual, and he might have to spend a month in his chamber,
instead of reporting to the flag-officer of the Eastern Gulf squadron,
in command of the Bronx.

He rang the bell, and the sound from it reverberated through the entire
mansion. It was some time before a servant came to open the door; but
the man who let him in was astonished to see him partially dressed, and
wondered if he had not been walking in his sleep. In the lower hall, he
was satisfied that the whole house was astir, for the gong which had
sounded was the "emergency bell," used only when the ordinary one at the
front door was not likely to be heard.

"Walsh!" called Mrs. Passford from the head of the stairs.

"Yes, ma'am," replied the man who had admitted Christy, and who was
still wondering what fit, freak, or fancy had beset the young officer.

"Who is it? What is the matter?" demanded the lady of the mansion, in
tones which indicated anxiety if not alarm.

"It is Mr. Christy, ma'am; nothing is the matter," replied Walsh;
but then he appeared to think that he had replied without proper
consideration, and he revised his speech. "I don't know that anything's
the matter, ma'am," and still he gazed at the young gentleman, as though
he deemed it possible that he had suddenly gone crazy.

"Nothing is the matter, mother," called Christy. "I am all right."

"But why are you out at this time of night, my son? It is nearly two
o'clock in the morning," said Mrs. Passford, as she descended the
stairs. "You are not half dressed, Christy."

"But I am all right, mother, and there is not the least reason to worry
about anything, for the ship is not going to the bottom just yet,"
replied Christy, indulging in a forced laugh to assist in quieting his
mother's fears.

"But why are you out doors at this time of night?" Mrs. Passford
insisted. "You will catch a cold that will lay you up, if you go out
in that condition."

"I should not have rung that bell if I had not been afraid of taking
cold," added the son.

"But, Christy, something has happened; and you must tell me about it, or
I shall not sleep another wink to-night," persisted the lady, concluding
that her son was trying to conceal something from her, as indeed he was,
for he feared it would alarm her if he told her some one had come into
the house.

"There is nothing to be frightened about, mother; and I will tell you
all about it," added Christy, as he took his overcoat from the stand and
put it on. "I waked an hour ago, or more, with the idea that some one
had opened the door of my room," and he related the circumstances to his
mother, including his search in the grounds and the road.

"Do you think any one came into the house?" asked Mrs. Passford, though
with but little of the woman's terror that such a statement might have
caused.

"That is my decided opinion. A noise at my chamber door woke me; I found
the front door ajar, though I know I closed it when I came in last
night, and I saw something moving down the avenue, which could only have
been a man. Of course, I conclude that it was a burglar; but none of us
have been killed or harmed."

Christy went to his room and completed his toilet. The house was warm,
and he was soon comfortable enough after the out-door chill. By this
time Miss Florry Passford had put in an appearance in the upper hall,
with Bertha Pembroke. The alarm was again briefly explained, and the
invalid gentleman was assured that nothing alarming had occurred. Then
the young lieutenant and his mother proceeded to ascertain what the
burglar had accomplished in the house.

On the lower floor nothing appeared to have been disturbed. In the
parlor a gold watch, adorned with diamonds, had been left on the table
by Florry, who had forgotten it; but it had not been taken. The burglar
could not have helped seeing it if he had explored the house as such
gentry do on such occasions. In the dining-room no attempt to open the
steel safe set in the wall, which contained a vast amount of silver,
jewelry, money, and other valuables, had been made. In a word,
wherever they examined the rooms, no sign of any depredations could be
discovered. The burglar did not appear to have lunched in the pantry
where some choice viands had been placed. The robber had certainly
been very considerate, and had done no mischief either for plunder or
diversion. He had evidently, in the opinion of Mrs. Passford and her
son, undertaken a profitless enterprise.

"But what could have been his object in coming into the house?" asked
the bewildered lady.

"I shall have to give it up, mother."

"He might have taken Florry's watch, she was so careless as to leave on
the table in the sitting-room," added she.

"But he did not."

"He could not have been disturbed until you spoke to him; and he might
have ransacked the whole of the lower part of the house."

"But he did not."

They had given up the examination of the premises, and given up the
conundrum, and Christy was leading the way up-stairs. He went into his
room, followed by his mother.

"He must have come into your room, my son, or you would not have heard
him at the door. Perhaps he has robbed you," suggested Mrs. Passford.

The young officer declared he had nothing there to steal. As he spoke,
he took from his coat pocket on the bedpost an envelope containing his
commission and other papers. It was safe; so were his purse and watch.

The mystery was not solved till Christy embarked for the Gulf.




CHAPTER II

THE ABSCONDING MAN-SERVANT


Lieutenant Christopher Passford, in his two years' experience in
the navy, had been under the fire of the enemy too many times to
be intimidated by a burglar, and he felt a certain contempt for the
midnight marauder, who had entered the mansion and disturbed his restful
slumbers. He returned to his bed, therefore, and slept like a marine
till the call bell woke him in the morning.

As he dressed himself he could not help thinking of the mysterious
visitation, and he asked himself a great many questions in regard to the
object of the intruder, since it did not appear that he had entered the
house for the purpose of robbing its occupants. He could not determine
whether or not the fellow had actually come into his room; but his
porte-monnaie, which contained a considerable sum of money, and his gold
repeater, a very valuable watch, were just where he had left them the
night before.

In the breast pocket of his uniform coat he found the envelope which
contained his commission as a lieutenant, received only two days before
his orders, and some other papers. As a precaution against inquisitive
persons, if the package should happen to be mislaid in the house, he had
applied some mucilage in the library, and resealed the envelope. It had
not been tampered with so far as he could discover, and he returned it
to the pocket.

The mysterious visitor at the mansion, whoever or whatever he was, could
not be regarded as a burglar, or, if he was, he had strangely neglected
his opportunities, for he had failed to appropriate at least five
hundred dollars worth of watches and money, which he could hardly have
helped seeing. His object was not plunder, and there was nothing to
indicate the purpose of his visit. In retiring from the house the
intruder had left the front door ajar: and Christy thought it would
have been the most natural thing in the world to close it, in order to
conceal the way by which he had left the mansion. But he might have done
this to avoid the noise of shutting it, or had neglected it in his haste
to escape.

When he had completed his toilet Christy looked at his watch, and was
rather surprised to find that it was a full hour later than usual when
the call bell had been rung. He went down-stairs, and found his mother
and Florry very busy in the dining-room, setting the table. This was the
man's work, and the young officer was astonished to see his mother and
sister doing it.

"What has broken now, mother?" asked the lieutenant, glancing from one
to the other of the busy couple.

"I don't know that anything has broken," replied Mrs. Passford, with a
smile, after she had said good-morning to her son.

"You and Florry are not in the habit of setting the table, mother; and
the first bell rang an hour later than usual," added Christy.

"We were all disturbed last night, and I did not wake till the cook
knocked at my door. She told me she could not find Walsh, and breakfast
had been ready half an hour. That is the reason why everything is late
this morning," Mrs. Passford explained.

"But where is Walsh?" inquired Christy.

"I am sure I do not know. I called in the coachman, and he has been to
his room and looked all over the place without finding him."

"That is very odd," mused the officer, wondering whether this sudden
disappearance had anything to do with the principal event of the
preceding night.

"Peach says he has taken his valise with him, which indicates that he
has gone for good."

"Who is Peach?" asked Christy, who had been at home so little that he
hardly knew the names of the servants.

"He is the coachman. I am not sorry that Walsh has gone, for he has
saved me the trouble of discharging him. Wilder, who had been with us so
many years, took it into his head to enlist in the army, and I was not
willing to persuade him to shirk his duty. Walsh has not been here quite
two weeks. He said he was born in the West Indies; but he was always
prying into matters that did not concern him, and I have several times
found him standing at the door when we were talking about family
matters. I reproved him for it; but it did no good. Your father intended
to discharge him as soon as he returned from Washington."

Christy went to the library, and busied himself in considering whether
or not the sudden departure of Walsh had any connection with the
mysterious midnight intruder. The two events had been near together in
point of time; but he could establish no other relation between them.
Then it flashed upon his mind that the man-servant had been the person
who had opened or closed his door, and visited his room; but he was sure
he had seen a man near the grand entrance of the estate. He had been all
around the house, and Walsh could not have escaped his observation. He
had answered the bell, and admitted him after his search. He concluded
that the servant was not the person who had disturbed his slumbers.

The morning mail brought a letter from Captain Passford, informing the
family that he was detained in Washington, and that he could not be at
home to say good-by to his son, who was to leave that day in the store
ship Vernon. He wrote a special letter to Christy, containing not only
his adieux, but the good advice he would otherwise have given him in
person.

The breakfast was rather a sad gathering on account of this parting, for
Christy was to leave in another hour. Bertha Pembroke and her father
were quite as sad as the mother and sister, and the young officer did
his best to cheer up the family and the guests. He tried to make them
laugh, but he found it was up-hill work.

"You will be in command of a steamer, Christy, when you reach the Gulf.
I hope you will not be rash, and try to do too much," said Mrs.
Passford, as they rose from the table.

"I don't think I am ever rash, mother; and if I have been exceedingly
fortunate, it was more because the circumstances favored me than because
I ran great risks," replied Christy very seriously, for he was sensitive
on the point his mother had brought up. "Father has said a great deal to
me on this subject, and I have always done my best to carry out his
principles. It is not my fault that I have a friend at court, and have
had opportunities that have not been offered to many others. But the
tide may turn against me on my next cruise."

"I hope it will not, my son," added his mother very earnestly.

"No one knows what is going to happen, and I may spend the next year or
two in a Confederate prison. I don't think my Uncle Homer would cry his
eyes out if such should be my fate, for he has lost several vessels and
cargoes of cotton on my account," returned Christy.

"But I am sure he has no ill-will against you."

"I don't think he has."

"By the way, Christy, have you heard anything from him or his family
lately?" asked Mrs. Passford.

"Not a word, and I am not likely to hear from them. Corny Passford was
exchanged, and sent back to the South a year ago or more; and I have no
idea what has become of him since."

After breakfast Christy packed his valise, where he placed the new
uniform in which he intended to present himself on the quarter-deck of
the Bronx. The carriage was at the door to convey him to the railroad
station. The parting was not less tender than it had been on former
similar occasions, and Mrs. Passford preferred that it should be in the
house rather than at the railroad station, in the presence of curious
observers. Many tears were shed after the carriage drove off, for the
patriotic young man might find a grave in southern soil, or beneath
southern waters.

The young lieutenant choked down his emotions, and tried to think of the
future; his case was not different from that of hundreds of thousands of
others who had gone forth to fight the battles of their country, many
thousands of whom slumber in hallowed graves far away from home and
friends. As the train moved on towards the great city, he obtained the
command of his emotions, and felt a new inspiration of patriotic ardor.

On his arrival in New York he hastened across the ferry to the
navy-yard. As he approached the opposite shore, he discovered a steamer
getting under way. He had not seen the vessel on board of which he was
ordered to report as a passenger, but when he asked a deck hand what the
steamer was, he was informed that it was the Vernon. The ferry-boat had
just gone into the slip, and Christy was terribly startled to learn that
he was late. He was still two hours ahead of the time indicated in his
orders, and the Vernon was actually getting under way.

The young officer was more excited than he had ever been in the face of
the enemy, for the present looked like a case in which his honor was at
stake. He felt that it would be his ruin if the Vernon sailed without
him. There had been some mistake in his orders, or in those of the
commander of the store ship, and he was likely to be the sufferer for
it. He rushed to the stern end of the ferry-boat in order to obtain a
better view of the steamer; and at this moment he discovered a boat,
pulled by one man, headed towards the navy-yard.

"Boat, ahoy!" shouted Christy, with almost frantic earnestness.

"On board the ferry-boat!" replied the man, resting on his oars.

"Five dollars if you will put me on board of that steamer before she
gets off!" added the officer.

"I'm the one for your money," returned the oarsman, as he headed his
boat into the slip.

Without much difficulty Christy dropped his valise into the boat, and
then dropped himself in after it. The belated passenger cast an earnest
look at the Vernon, which had just begun to move, though at a snail's
pace, and he hoped he should be able to get on board of her.

"Naval officer, sir?" interrogated the boatman.

"Yes; but I have no time to spare, and you must not stop to talk,"
replied Christy rather sharply.

"Time enough, sir, if you are going on board of the Vernon, and I will
give you one of my oars if I don't put you on her deck," said the
boatman very positively. "I hope you are nimble with your feet and
hands, sir."

"I will take care of that part of the matter if you will put me
alongside the steamer," answered Christy. "No more talk, if you please,
for you are wasting your wind."

"I have plenty of it for this job. You said five dollars, I believe,
sir," added the man, looking earnestly at his passenger.

"Five dollars is just what I said," replied the lieutenant, as he took
a bill of that denomination from his porte-monnaie, rolled it around the
boat-hook, and fixed it so that it should not blow away.

"Thank you, sir," said the rower, as he pulled with more vigor even than
before, and did not say another word till the boat was alongside the
Vernon.

Christy found a rope hanging over the side, to which the boatman
attached his valise, the young officer going up the line hand over hand
as though he was used to that sort of thing. The oarsman secured his
five-dollar bill, and Christy hauled up his valise. He felt that he had
saved himself from the dishonor of failing to obey his orders, and he
looked about him for some one who would be able to explain to him how
the steamer happened to be sailing two hours before the time named in
his orders. Three or four sailors were at work in the waist, where the
lieutenant came on board; and Christy was not a little astonished to
observe that Walsh, the absconding man-servant, was one of them.




CHAPTER III

CHRISTY PASSFORD IS UTTERLY CONFOUNDED


The appearance of Walsh, fully dressed in the garb of a seaman, was so
great a surprise to Christy Passford, that he hardly noticed any other
person on the deck of the Vernon. He had given no particular attention
to the man when he saw him at his father's house, though he regarded him
as a very good-looking and intelligent person for one in the situation
in which he found him. The absconding man-servant had certainly made
good use of his time since he left Bonnydale, for he appeared to have
become a full-fledged sailor in the space of ten hours.

For the size of the steamer, she seemed to be manned by a very large
crew; but the letter he had received from his father that morning
informed him that the greater part of the crew of the Bronx had been
transferred to other vessels upon more active service, and that a large
number of seamen were to be sent immediately to reinforce the squadron.
This was not pleasant intelligence, for he had become acquainted with
all on board of the Bronx, and he would have preferred to begin his
permanent service as commander with the former ship's company of the
little steamer. However, the exigencies of the service required the
change, and he could not complain.

It was probable that the greater part of his new crew would be made up
from the men now on board of the Vernon; and this belief caused him to
regard these men with more interest than he might otherwise have done.
He had no fault to find after the glance he had bestowed upon them, for
they presented a very trim appearance in their new uniform, and looked a
great deal more tidy than they would after they had been on duty a few
weeks.

Lieutenant Passford was on board of the Vernon, and he had no further
solicitude in regard to a literal obedience to his orders. The commander
of the steamer, whoever he was, did not appear to have noticed the new
arrival, and no one gave any attention to Christy. He walked forward
to take a better view of the crew, and the seamen touched their caps
to the shoulder straps of a lieutenant with which he had been careful
to ornament his coat.

The men at work in the waist finished their task as Christy was
returning from his promenade, with the intention of presenting himself
to the commander. Among those who saluted him in proper form was Walsh.
He seemed to be a little diffident about encountering the son of his
late employer, and turned his face away as he touched his cap. But the
officer had fully identified him, and spoke to him, calling him by name.
The sailor made no reply; but Christy had placed himself directly before
him, and he could not escape without a breach of discipline.

"I spoke to you, Walsh," said the lieutenant, in the tone he had learned
to use when he intended to enforce respect and obedience.

"I beg your pardon, sir; my name is not Walsh," replied the sailor, with
all the deference the occasion required.

"Your name is not Walsh!" exclaimed Christy with a frown.

"No, sir; that is not my name, and I supposed that you spoke to some
other man," pleaded the late man-servant of the mansion at Bonnydale.

The lieutenant gazed earnestly into the face of the sailor, for he was
willing to admit to himself the possibility of a mistake. Walsh, or
whatever his name might have been, was a man of robust form, not more
than an inch or two short of six feet in height. He was clean-shaved,
with the exception of his upper lip, whereon he sported a rather long
dark brown mustache, of which a Broadway dandy might have been vain. As
a servant, he had been rather obsequious, though Christy had observed
that he used very good language for one in his menial position. As the
officer examined his form and features, and especially regarded the
expression in general, he was satisfied that he could not be mistaken.

"I did not speak to another man; I spoke to you," added Christy, as he
intensified the gaze with which he confronted the man, resorting to the
tactics of a sharp lawyer in the cross-examination of an obdurate
witness.

"I ask your pardon, sir, but you called me Welch, or some such name,"
replied the late servant, as Christy was sure he was in spite of his
denial.

"I called you Walsh; and that is the name to which you responded at two
o'clock this morning," persisted the lieutenant.

"That is not my name, sir; and I refer you to the ship's papers to prove
it. I am not the man to be ashamed of my name, which is not Welch or
Walsh, sir, if you will excuse me for saying so."

"Will you deny that you were employed as a servant at the house of
Captain Passford, at Bonnydale on the Hudson?" demanded Christy, with
not a little energy in his tones and manner.

"Where, sir, if you please?" asked the sailor, with a sort of bewildered
look.

"At Bonnydale!"

"Boddyvale? I never heard of the place before in my life, sir," answered
the runaway servant.

Possibly the man under examination was not wholly responsible for his
distortion of the name of Captain Passford's estate, as Christy was
beginning to reap the penalty of his imprudence the night before, in
exposing himself barefooted and half-clothed to the chill midnight
air, and was developing a cold in the head that already affected his
enunciation.

"Bonnydale!" repeated the officer, after using his handkerchief, and
thus improving his utterance of the word.

"I never heard of the place before, sir," persisted the seaman.

"Byron!" called a boatswain's mate from the forecastle.

"That's my name--Byron, sir, at your service," said the man, as he
touched his cap to the lieutenant, and rushed forward in answer to the
call of his superior, evidently glad to escape from the inquisition to
which he had been subjected. "On deck!" he added, as he made his way to
the forecastle.

Christy was a passenger on board of the Vernon, and he had nothing to
do. The commanding officer appeared to be engaged in the details of his
duty, though the steamer was in charge of a pilot. He could see from
his shoulder straps that he was an ensign, and the officers in the waist
and on the forecastle were of the same rank. If there were any other
passengers on board of the vessel who were commissioned officers, they
were not visible on the deck, though they might be in their staterooms,
arranging their affairs for the voyage.

The young lieutenant leaned against the rail, and gave himself up to the
consideration of what had occurred since he came on board. He had been
bewildered by one mystery the night before, and he could not help asking
himself if the conduct of Walsh had anything to do with the visit of the
intruder at Bonnydale. He could not trace out any connection between the
two events; but, on the other hand, he was unable to satisfy himself
that the mysterious visit, the sudden disappearance of the man-servant,
and the denial of his identity by the latter, were not in some manner
related to each other.

He had no premises on which to base an argument for or against one thing
or another. All was dark to him, and he could not get hold of anything.
After he had raised up a variety of suppositions, and combated
vigorously with them, the darkness seemed only to become more dense,
and he was compelled to abandon the subject without arriving at any
reasonable explanation. Under the instruction of his father, he had
cultivated "a judicial mind," which compelled him to reject all mere
speculation.

Christy was not disposed to believe that he was a brilliant officer,
or to accept unchallenged the extravagant praise that had been bestowed
upon him. He endeavored to follow the Gospel injunction "not to think of
himself more highly than he ought to think." But while he tried to keep
the flower of modesty in full bloom in his soul, he could not deny that
he had given the enemies of his country a great deal of trouble, and
subjected them to some heavy losses. Then he recalled the conspiracy on
board of the Bronx while he was acting-commander of her; and though it
was for the interest of the Confederacy to get rid of so active an
officer, he believed it was the vessel and not himself that the
conspirators desired to obtain.

Before the Vernon reached The Narrows, everything on her deck had been
put in order by the large crew, and less activity prevailed on board.
Christy thought it was time for him to report to the commander, and he
moved aft for this purpose. He did not even know the name of this
gentleman, and he saw no one to introduce him formally; but the ensign
in command had doubtless received an order to take him as a passenger to
the Gulf.

Before he reached the sacred limits of the quarter-deck, Christy met a
quartermaster, of whom he inquired the name of the commander.

"He has a good name for the captain of a fighting ship," replied the
petty officer, respectfully touching his cap to the shoulder straps of
the inquirer. "The commander is Captain Battleton."

"Captain Battleton," repeated Christy, to assure himself that he had
correctly understood the name.

"Captain Battleton," added the quartermaster. "I hope you are feeling
better to-day, sir."

"I am feeling very well to-day, except that I have started a cold in the
head," replied Christy, astonished at this display of interest in the
state of his health.

"I am glad to hear it, sir, for you appeared to be quite sick last night
when you came on board," added the quartermaster.

"Did I, indeed? I was not aware of it. I came on board last night? I was
not aware of that fact," said Christy.

The petty officer did not hear his remarks, for he had been called by
the second lieutenant in the waist, and, with a touch of his cap,
hastened away. The lieutenant opened his eyes very wide, as he looked
down at the seams in the deck, and wondered whether he were asleep or
awake. He had been quite sick, and he had come on board the night
before! It was very strange that he was not at all aware of either of
these facts. He felt reasonably confident that he had slept in his own
chamber at Bonnydale the night before, and at that time he was certainly
in a very robust state of health, however it might be at the present
moment. Even now, he could not complain of anything more severe than an
embryo cold in the head, which the medicine his mother had given him
would probably reduce to a state of subjection in a day or two.

At first, he was disposed to be amused at the answers the quartermaster
had given him, for it was evident to him then that he had been mistaken
for another person. It looked as though some officer had come on board,
and reported under his name, for he had not yet learned anything in
regard to the gentleman who had appeared to be quite sick when he
reported himself. It had the elements of another mystery in it. But the
petty officer could easily have made an honest mistake; and this was the
solution he accepted, without bothering his bewildered brain any further
about it.

The commander appeared to be less occupied at this moment than he had
been before, and Christy stepped forward to the quarter-deck, and
politely saluted him. Captain Battleton was not less punctilious in his
etiquette. He was a young man, though he was apparently six or seven
years older than Christy. He was an ensign, and looked like a gentleman
who was likely to give a good account of himself when he was called to
more active duty than that of commanding a store ship.

"Good-morning, Lieutenant Passford!" said Captain Battleton, as he
extended his hand to his passenger. "I am glad to see that you are
better."

Christy was utterly confounded at this salutation.




CHAPTER IV

THE SICK OFFICER IN THE STATEROOM


Captain Battleton spoke to Christy as though he had met him before, and
needed no introduction. He was glad to see that the young officer was
better, which indicated that he had been sick. He was confounded by the
situation, for he had not been sick an hour, and he had never seen the
commander of the Vernon in his life. The petty officer had told him that
he appeared to be quite sick when he came on board the night before.

What he had learned within the last few moments was even more perplexing
than the mysterious visitation at Bonnydale. Then the appearance of
Walsh on board, and his denial of his identity, were still in his mind,
and he wondered whether or not all these strange circumstances had any
connection. But he was standing in the presence of the commander of the
steamer, and he had no time to reach a conclusion of any kind,
satisfactory or otherwise.

Christy took the offered hand of Captain Battleton, and looked earnestly
into his face to determine whether he had ever seen him before; but the
face was entirely new to him. He was quite confident that he had never
seen the commander before. There was something rather ludicrous in the
situation, and he felt as though he was taking part in a farce; at any
rate, there was nothing serious or compromising in it, and in spite of
the confusion in his mind, he could not help smiling.

"I thank you, Captain Battleton, for your very kind interest in the
state of my health, but with the exception of the first signs of a cold
in the head, I never was better in my life," said Christy in reply to
the salutation of the commander, still holding his hand.

"Then you have improved wonderfully since last evening," added Captain
Battleton.

"I am glad to be informed of the fact, for I am not conscious of any
such improvement as you describe. In fact, I am not in quite so good
condition in a sanitary point of view as I was last evening, for I took
my cold about midnight, or a little later, last night," added Christy,
his smile becoming a little more pronounced.

It was now the turn of Captain Battleton to be puzzled, if not
mystified, by the statement of his passenger, and he looked inquiringly
into his face as if to ascertain if he was not the victim of a practical
joke. But naval officers on duty are not given to pleasantries; and if
he had any such suspicion, he banished it at once, for there was nothing
in the appearance of the lieutenant to warrant it.

"Pardon me, Mr. Passford, but were you not sick when you came on board
of the Vernon last evening?" asked the commander, with something like a
frown upon his brow as the situation became more bewildering.

"If you will excuse me for making an indirect reply, captain, I did not
come on board of the Vernon last evening," answered Christy, his smile
becoming still more decided; and if he had not been on the quarter-deck
of a vessel in service, he might have suspected that he was himself the
victim of a practical joke.

"You did not come on board of the Vernon last evening!" exclaimed
Captain Battleton, gazing very earnestly into the face of his passenger.

"I did not, captain," replied Christy quietly, though he was amused
rather than disquieted by the earnestness of the commander.

"You did not?"

"Certainly not; and if my simple affirmation is not enough, I could
prove that I slept in my father's house at Bonnydale last night, took
my breakfast there this morning, and was in the city of New York at ten
o'clock this forenoon," answered Christy, in the best of humor.

"This is very strange," said Captain Battleton, fixing his gaze upon
the planks on which he stood, possibly considering whether he or his
passenger was dreaming or out of his head.

"If I were still at Brooklyn doubtless I could find the boatman who put
me on board of the Vernon not more than an hour ago," continued Christy,
willing to convince his auditor that he was entirely in earnest in his
statement.

"I beg your pardon, Mr. Passford, but I did not intend to question the
truth of your reply to my question," said the commander, fearing that he
had overstated his doubts. "I am simply bewildered, confused, confounded
by this interview."

"So am I, captain," added the lieutenant, laughing outright at the
perplexity in which both of them were involved. "I have told you the
simple truth in regard to my movements."

"And you did not come on board of the Vernon last evening?"

"Emphatically I did not."

"You were not sick last evening?"

"I was not; not even as sick as I am at this moment," replied Christy,
using his handkerchief.

"I don't understand it," said Captain Battleton, shaking his head.

"Now, captain, will you permit me ask what you do not understand, for I
assure you I am profoundly ignorant of the situation which perplexes
you. I was ordered to be on board of the Vernon at one o'clock, and I
found her under way at eleven. I happened to find a boatman before I
left the ferry-boat, who put me on board, or I should have missed my
passage. That is simply all I know about the matter."

"When I called upon you in your stateroom this morning, you told me
that"--

"I beg your pardon, Captain Battleton, but I have not been in any
stateroom, sick or well, on board of the Vernon, and I respectfully
suggest that it was quite impossible for you to have called upon me this
morning, or at any other time," Christy interposed, very pleasantly,
though quite as perplexed as the commander.

"Of course I shall not raise an issue as to your veracity, Mr. Passford,
but after the statement you have made to me, I must change the form of
my phraseology," continued the commander, using a smile to cover any
possible doubts or suspicions in his mind. "When I called at the
stateroom of the officer who reported on board last evening as
Lieutenant Christopher Passford, he told me that I was expected to
get under way and proceed to my destination as soon as the officer and
the seamen were on board."

"Did he bring you an order to this effect?" asked Christy more
seriously.

"He did not, and perhaps I have made a mistake, though my superior
officer told me at the yard that it would be safe for me to obey the
verbal order," replied Captain Battleton, looking somewhat troubled.

"I have no intention to meddle with what does not concern me, captain.
It appears that Lieutenant Passford has already reported to you," said
Christy; and this was the astounding fact to him of the situation.

He was absolutely confident that he was himself Lieutenant Christopher
Passford, and as absolutely confident that the other officer could not
be that person, whoever else he might be. The commander appeared to be
considering what Christy had suggested to him in regard to his orders,
and the passenger had a minute or two to think of the situation in which
he found himself placed. But what was the use to think of it? He was at
the end of a blind alley, where there was no light from any direction
except that by which he had entered it. He had no premises from which to
reason, and it was useless to consider the matter.

"Mr. Passford, I find myself placed in a very unpleasant position," said
the commander, after he had deliberated a few minutes. "I have stated
the facts to you; and the deduction I have to draw from them is, that I
have two persons by the name of Lieutenant Passford on board."

"That seems to me to be a correct deduction," added Christy.

"The brilliant officer who bears this name is too well known to hide his
light under a bushel. I have not the honor to be personally acquainted
with him, and therefore I am unable to decide which of the gentlemen who
report to me under that name is the real one."

"Precisely so."

"You will pardon me if I add that I think one or the other of them must
be an impostor," added Captain Battleton with some diffidence.

"That is a perfectly justifiable conclusion; and it rests with you to
decide which is the genuine Lieutenant Passford, and which is the
impostor," replied Christy frankly. "You will be perfectly justified
in calling upon both for all the evidence they are able to present.
I suggest that each of them must carry his commission about him, as
well as his orders from the department; and it seems to me that these
documents will enable you to decide without any delay;" and Christy
involuntarily put his hand upon his breast pocket, where he carried
these valuable papers.

He could feel the envelope that contained them, and he was satisfied of
the triumph which awaited him when the evidence should be required of
the two claimants of the name. At the same time he felt that he was
moving in a cloud of mystery, which had begun to enfold him in the
middle of the preceding night.

"I thank you for the suggestion, Mr. Passford, and I must say that you
seem to be entirely fair," said the commander.

"If I am the impostor, I do not know myself; but I have no desire to
forestall your decision. You saw the sick officer when he came on board
last evening, and you have visited him in his stateroom to-day. Do I
look enough like him to be taken for him?" asked Christy with a smile,
as he placed himself in an attitude to be scrutinized by the commander.

"I am sure that you do, sir; and when I saw you on the quarter-deck for
the first time, I had no doubt you were the officer who came on board
sick last evening," replied Captain Battleton.

"That makes it all the more remarkable, for I was not aware that there
was any officer in the navy who resembled me so closely," added Christy
more bewildered than before, and beginning to scent a plot of some kind
against him or his country.

"I must say that any man who will take upon himself the position and
reputation of the real Lieutenant Passford is a bold man, and even, if
he succeeds in taking his place, he will fail in playing the _rle_."

"I should thank you, Captain Battleton, for the compliment, if I were
not under suspicion of being some other person. May I ask when it will
be convenient for you to settle the question, for it is not pleasant for
me to feel that I am looked upon as even a possible impostor?"

"I shall not regard you as an impostor, Mr. Passford, for I mean to be
entirely impartial, and I shall not brand you even in thought until the
evidence warrants me in doing so," replied the commander, as he called
the surgeon who was just coming on deck. "How do you find your patient,
Dr. Connelly?"

"I find him--I thought I found him; but he appears to be on deck,"
replied the surgeon, as he fixed his gaze upon Christy, preluded by
a start, dramatic enough to prove that he was astonished to find his
patient was not in his room below. "I left him not five minutes ago, for
I have not yet been able to discover what ails him. He complained of a
severe headache and pains in his bones; but he has not a particle of
fever, or any symptom of anything that I can discover. I am glad to see
you on deck, Mr. Passford. How is your headache?"

"If I have had any headache, I have entirely recovered from it," replied
Christy, laughing heartily. "I came on board only an hour ago, doctor,
and I have had no headache, thank you."

"Looking at you more closely, I see that you are not my patient, and you
will excuse me for giving you a headache. But you resemble my patient
very closely," added the doctor.

"I did not answer your question, Mr. Passford," interposed Captain
Battleton. "In an hour we will settle the question."

Christy seated himself and began to consider the strange situation.




CHAPTER V

LIEUTENANT PASSFORD AND HIS APPARENT DOUBLE


The Vernon continued on her course, and in another hour the pilot
had been discharged. Christy had puzzled his brains over the events of
the day and the night before without being able to arrive at any
satisfactory conclusion. He was extremely anxious to see the officer
who had taken his name and assumed his character, as he was to obtain
all the information within his reach. His reflections assured him
that some one had chosen the _rle_ of an impostor for the purpose of
accomplishing some treasonable object, and he was anxious to fathom the
mystery for his country's sake rather than his own.

Captain Battleton would soon begin his investigation, and Christy was
confident that the sick officer would be proved to be the impostor. He
was not at all worried or even disturbed in regard to the result, for he
felt that "truth is mighty and must prevail." His only solicitude was to
unravel the plot. Bands of Confederates had been put on board of several
steamers for the purpose of capturing them; and it was possible that
this plan had been adopted to obtain possession of the Vernon, for she
was a good vessel, and was fitted out as a man-of-war.

It was plain enough to Christy that the remarkable attempt of one or the
other of the officers on board as passengers to personate the other had
been explained to those on the quarter-deck, for he observed that they
all regarded him with curiosity, and were interested in the matter. As
the surgeon passed near him he spoke to him.

"Does your patient below seem to be improving, doctor?" he asked.

"He still complains that his head and his bones ache, so that I cannot
say he is improving," replied Dr. Connelly.

"How old a man does he appear to be?"

"I should take him for a young man of twenty or twenty-one, but he says
he is only eighteen. He is a very young officer to be put in charge of
a steamer, for I understand that he is ordered to the command of the
Bronx. But then he has made a reputation as the commander of that
vessel, which doubtless justifies his appointment."

"Does he talk at all?"

"Oh, yes; he has told me about some of his exploits; and as he seems to
forget his aches when he speaks of them, I have encouraged him to talk
as much as possible."

"Is he really sick, doctor?" asked Christy, with a smile which meant
something.

"He says he is, and I have to take his word for it," replied the
surgeon, with a corresponding smile.

"I heard you tell the captain that you could not make out the nature of
his malady."

"I cannot so far, though that does not prove that he is not sick; but I
will venture to say he could not get his discharge from the navy on his
present symptoms. He may have drunk too much wine or whiskey recently,
though he certainly was not in liquor when he came on board."

"How is your patient, Dr. Connelly?" asked Captain Battleton, joining
them at this moment.

"About the same the last time I saw him. He ate all the toast I sent
to him, and seemed to enjoy it. I don't think he is in a dangerous
condition," replied the surgeon.

"I am glad to hear it. Have you informed him that we have another
lieutenant on board of the Vernon?" continued the commander.

"No, captain: I have not. That is not my affair, and I don't meddle with
what does not concern me."

"An excellent rule. Is he aware of the fact that there is another
Richmond in the field?"

"If he is, he has said nothing to me about the matter."

"Do you think he could go out into the cabin, doctor?" asked the
captain. "I wish to see him on a matter of the utmost importance.
Is he dressed?"

"He is; he dressed himself this morning, and sits up part of the time."

"Then you will oblige me by getting him into the cabin; I mean my cabin.
I will be there in ten minutes."

The surgeon went below, leaving the commander and Christy together.

"Can you make anything of this affair yet, Mr. Passford?" asked Captain
Battleton.

"I can come to no conclusion in regard to it, though I may be able to
do so when I have seen my double," replied Christy, whose curiosity
in regard to the sick officer was strongly excited. "It looks like a
conspiracy of some kind, but I can go no farther in the direction of a
solution."

The commander looked at his watch after they had conversed a little
while longer, and then invited Christy to visit his cabin with him.
The other Lieutenant Passford was seated in an arm-chair at the table.
Christy looked at him with the deepest interest, but the back of the
other was turned to him, and he did not get a full view of his face. The
sick man was dressed in the naval uniform with the shoulder straps of a
lieutenant.

"I wish to introduce a gentleman to you; Lieutenant Passford, let me
make you acquainted with Lieutenant Passford," said the commander as he
led the way into the captain's cabin.

"Thank you, Captain Battleton; I shall be very happy to make the
acquaintance of Lieutenant Passford," said the occupant of the cabin,
rising as he spoke, and approaching Christy. "Corny Passford!" exclaimed
the sick officer. "I did not expect to see you here. This gentleman is
my own cousin, Captain Battleton, though I am sorry to say that he is
a rebel; but for all that he is one of the finest fellows in the known
world, and you will appreciate everything about him except his politics,
which I do not admire myself."

Christy was not stunned or overwhelmed by this impudent speech. He
looked at the speaker, and promptly recognized his cousin Corny. He was
astonished at the brazen assurance of the other, for he had always
seemed to him to be a fairly modest young man. Corny extended his hand
to Christy, and it was accepted.

"I am very glad to see you, Corny," said he of the South, "and not the
less glad because the meeting is so unexpected."

"It is certainly very unexpected on my part, Corny," replied Christy,
who began to comprehend the object of his cousin; but there was
something so ludicrous in the situation that he was more disposed
to laugh than to look upon it seriously.

"I am very glad to see you, Corny," continued he who bore that name in
reality. "I did not expect to find you on board of the Vernon. How are
uncle Homer, aunt Lydia, and Gerty?"

"I have not seen _my_ uncle Homer for several months; but I had not the
remotest idea that you had an uncle Homer," replied Christy, laughing
heartily, for the situation seemed so amusing to him that the serious
part of his cousin's obvious plan had so far hardly dawned upon him.
"I should like to inquire of you, as one good turn deserves another,
in regard to the health of your father and mother and Gerty."

"My father is quite well, but he left Bonnydale last Tuesday to go to
Washington, and had not returned when I left home. My mother is quite
well, and so is Florry," replied the sick officer, who did not appear
to be suffering from a very severe headache just then, for he was quite
cheerful and animated.

"This appears to be a family party," interposed Captain Battleton, who
was very much amused to hear each of the young officers call the other
by the same name, and both of them appeared to be Corny Passford.

"It is a family party, captain," replied the sick officer, smiling as
cheerfully as though he had never had any practical knowledge of
headache and pains in the bones, which was the description of his malady
given to the surgeon. "As I have hinted before, my cousin Corny is a
rebel of the first order; and you can imagine my astonishment at finding
him in the uniform of a lieutenant on board a United States naval
vessel."

"Good, Corny!" exclaimed Christy, dropping upon the divan of the cabin
and laughing heartily.

"I can easily imagine your astonishment, Mr. Passford, for it seems to
me to be a very remarkable state of things," added the captain, as he
looked from one to the other of the claimants. "One thing seems to be
admitted by both of you, that you are both Passfords, and that you are
cousins."

"So far we do not disagree by the breadth of a hair. My cousin Corny was
_raised_ in the South, while I was raised in the North," continued the
sick passenger.

"I don't like to contradict my cousin, but I was _brought up_ in the
North," said Christy, hoping Captain Battleton would notice the
difference in the phraseology.

"Then you were both brought up in the North," suggested the captain.

"Not at all, for, as I said, my cousin Corny was brought up in the
South, at Glenfield, near Mobile," protested the ailing officer, who
was careful this time not to use the word "raised."

"Where were you yesterday, Corny?" asked Christy, suddenly suppressing
his mirth.

"I was in New York, preparing to come on board of the Vernon."

"Then you were not at Bonnydale?" demanded Christy sharply.

"Of course I was there; but it was a pretty day, and I went to the city
to attend to some affairs of mine," replied the sick man, with the first
signs of embarrassment he had exhibited.

"In spite of the fact that it was a pretty day, I should think you would
have spent your last day on shore with your mother and sister as I did,"
replied Christy.

"I was sick, and I wished to be as near the Vernon as possible. I felt
better in the afternoon and attended to my affairs; but I got bad again
in the afternoon, and I came on board in the evening, for I was afraid I
should not be able to do so in the morning," answered the invalid,
becoming as lively as before.

"Gentlemen, this seems to be a strange muddle," said the captain,
who was not disposed to listen any longer to the sparring between the
cousins. "At the suggestion of the lieutenant who came on board this
forenoon, I have taken the earliest opportunity to settle the question
as to which is the original and genuine Mr. Passford who was ordered on
board of the Vernon as a passenger for the Gulf, and who, I am informed,
is appointed to the command of the Bronx. I have not much time to spare,
and if you do not object, I shall call in the first lieutenant and the
surgeon to take part in this conference. I am perplexed, and I desire
witnesses if not assistants in these proceedings."

"I have not the slightest objection to the presence of as many officers
as you may choose to call in," added the invalid.

"I shall be equally reasonable," said Christy. "The more witnesses there
are the better it will suit me."

Captain Battleton struck a bell on his table, and sent the steward who
answered it to procure the attendance of the officers indicated, and
they soon presented themselves.

"Gentlemen, Lieutenant Salisbury, the executive officer of the Vernon,"
said the captain. "Both of these gentlemen are Lieutenant Christopher
Passford," he added, with a twinkle of the eye. "Dr. Connelly, you have
both met."

"Are we to understand that one of these officers is the double of the
other?" asked the first lieutenant, who seemed to be disposed to take in
the situation as a pleasantry of the commander.

"Hardly; both of them claim to be the same officer, and I have invited
you to assist me in deciding which is the real Mr. Passford."

The entire party then seated themselves at the table.




CHAPTER VI

THE CONFERENCE IN THE CAPTAIN'S CABIN


Captain Horatio Passford lived at Bonnydale on the Hudson. He was rich
in several millions of dollars, but he was richer in the possession of
a noble character, one of the most prominent traits of which was his
patriotism. He had presented his large and fast-sailing steam yacht to
the government of the nation at the beginning of the struggle. His motto
was, "Stand by the Union," and from the first he had done everything in
his power to sustain his country against the assaults of dissolution.

  [Illustration: The Conference in the Captain's Cabin.--Page 70.]

He had a wife, a daughter, and a son, and his family were as patriotic
as he was himself. At sixteen Christy, the son, had gone into the navy.
He had learned to be a sailor and an engineer in his repeated cruises in
the Bellevite, his father's large steam yacht, now a man-of-war in the
navy. In two years the young man had worked his way up to the rank of
lieutenant. He was very large for his age, and his nautical and
mechanical education had prepared him for service to a degree which
made him almost a prodigy, though his courage and skill had been fully
equalled, if not surpassed, by other naval officers not older than
himself.

Homer Passford, the only brother of his father, had early in life
settled in Alabama, and become a planter, where he had made a
respectable fortune, though he was a poor man compared with the northern
brother. He had a wife, a son, and a daughter. At the beginning of the
war of the Rebellion he had promptly espoused the cause of the South,
and from his point of view, he was fully as patriotic as his brother on
the other side. He was ready to give himself, his son, and his fortune
to the independence of the South. His character was quite as noble as
that of his brother, and he had done all he could in person and with his
wealth to insure the success of the Southern cause.

His son Cornelius followed the lead of his father, and was faithful
to the teachings given him in his southern home. He had enlisted as a
soldier; but when it was found that he could be more serviceable to the
Confederacy in certain irregular enterprizes, he was detached for this
service. He had been engaged in an attempt to capture the Bellevite in
connection with older and more skilful persons. The plan had failed,
Corny had been severely wounded, and while on parole had lived at
Bonnydale. From there he had been sent to a military prison, and had
been exchanged. From that time, Christy knew nothing about him until he
met him on board of the Vernon.

Corny was two years older than Christy; but the latter looked even more
mature than the former. The resemblance between them had hardly been
noticed by the two families, though Christy had spent several months
at different times at the plantation of his uncle. But the resemblance
was noted and often spoken of by persons outside of the families,
the members of which, being in the habit of seeing them often together,
did not notice the similarity of features and expression. Both of them
resembled their fathers, who were often mistaken the one for the other
in their early years.

After he found that the sick officer was his cousin Corny Passford,
Christy began to apprehend the object of his southern relative in
presenting himself as the bearer of his name and rank in the navy,
though he had no time to consider the subject. Corny had given him no
opportunity to look the matter over, for he had talked most of the time
as opportunity was presented.

Captain Battleton seated himself in the armchair which Corny had
abandoned, and placed a quire of paper before him as though he intended
to take notes of the proceedings. Christy was not at all disturbed
by the formal aspect the affair was assuming, for he felt entirely
confident that poor Corny would be a prisoner of war at its conclusion.
He had his commission and his orders in his pocket, and he was positive
that they would vindicate him.

"I reported to the department that I had only a single vacant stateroom
in the ward room of the Vernon, and I was ordered to receive Lieutenant
Christopher Passford as a passenger, as I could not take another
officer," said the captain. "It is not a serious question compared
with others at issue, but the occupation of the single room, now in
possession of the gentleman who came on board last evening, depends
upon the result of our present inquiry."

"I should say there would be no difficulty in settling this question,"
said Mr. Salisbury.

"These gentlemen are cousins, and both of them bear the name of
Passford," added the captain, as he raised his finger, pointing to
Corny. "Will you give us your name in full, if you please?"

"Christopher Passford," replied the invalid officer, with the most
unblushing effrontery.

"Your father's name?"

"Horatio Passford."

"Where does he live?"

"At Bonnydale, on the Hudson," replied Corny confidently.

"Excuse me, Captain Battleton; may I ask a question?" interposed the
first lieutenant.

"Certainly, Mr. Salisbury. This is not a court-martial, but an informal
investigation, and I shall be glad to have you and Dr. Connelly entirely
free to ask any questions you please," replied the captain, who was
anything but a martinet.

"Where did you say your father lived, Mr. Passford?" asked the executive
officer.

"At Bonnydale, on the Hudson," answered Corny, as we may call him now
that the reader knows who he is.

"Is Bonnydale the name of the town or city in which your father lives?"

"It is the name of my father's place," replied Corny; and Christy, who
was observing him very closely, saw that he was a little disturbed.

"Bonnydale sounds like a fancy name, such as any gentleman might give to
his estate, as Sunnyside was the home of Washington Irving. Is this the
fact?" asked Mr. Salisbury.

"I suppose it is," answered Corny, with increasing confusion.

"Don't you know?"

"We always called it Bonnydale; and I know no other name for it."

"But Bonnydale is not an incorporated town. In what city or town is your
father's place situated?"

"I know no name but Bonnydale," replied Corny; and the flush of fever or
something else was on his cheeks now.

"Nothing more, captain," said the first lieutenant; and the stock of the
other claimant mounted a little.

"Mr. Passford," continued the captain, indicating Christy with his
finger, "your father's name, if you please."

"Horatio Passford," replied Christy with a smile.

"Where does he live?"

"At Bonnydale, on the Hudson."

"Permit me, Captain Battleton," interposed Mr. Salisbury; and the
commander nodded his acquiescence. "Is Bonnydale the name of the town
or city in which your father lives, Mr. Passford?"

"It is the name of my father's place," answered Christy, using the same
words that Corny had.

"Bonnydale sounds like a fancy name, such as any gentleman might give
to his estate," continued Mr. Salisbury, smiling, as he repeated the
phrases he had used before. "Is this the fact?"

"It is; the name was given to the estate by my mother," replied Christy,
unable to follow Corny any farther.

"In what town or city is your father's estate situated?"

"It is within the limits of the town of Montgomery."

"Nothing further, captain," said the executive officer; and the stock of
this particular Lieutenant Passford mounted another trifle.

"Your cousin, who, according to your statement, was raised in the South,
seems to be better informed in regard to the geography of Bonnydale than
you do," added Captain Battleton.

"He is always inquiring into things that I don't care a straw about,"
replied Corny, vexed that he had been tripped up in a matter so simple.

The commander was disposed to carry the investigation a little farther
in the same direction, and he sent Christy into the ward room, where
he was instructed to remain until he was sent for. Captain Passford,
senior, was well known to all the officers present by reputation, and
he had assisted Dr. Connelly in procuring his appointment, so that the
latter had had occasion to visit Bonnydale three times.

The captain asked Corny a hundred questions in regard to the estate,
making memoranda of his answers. Once he suggested to the surgeon that
he had better examine the pulse of his patient, for he did not wish to
overtask him in the investigation. The subject of the inquiry declared
that his headache had almost disappeared, and he needed no indulgence on
account of his health.

After half an hour of questioning, Corny was sent to the ward room, and
Christy was called to the captain's cabin. About the same questions were
put to him as to his cousin; but both of them were prompt in their
answers. In the last two years, Corny had been more at Bonnydale than
Christy, and he was quite as much at home there, so that there was no
reason why he should not be able to describe the mansion and its
surroundings as accurately as the genuine Lieutenant Passford.

So far, Corny, with the single exception of his failure to give the
geography of the estate, stood quite as well as his cousin. Then the
first lieutenant questioned them both, as they were seated at the table,
in a very general way. In their answers, Corny used the word "raised,"
while Christy was "brought up." Several phrases in more common use at
the South than at the North were noted in his answers, which did not
appear in the diction of Christy.

When the questioning was finished, the leaning of the trio of officers
was in favor of Christy; but not one of them said anything in the
presence of the two Passfords. The captain declared that he had already
used up too much time in the inquiry, and he must close the conference
very soon. Then he asked if either of the gentlemen had any papers they
wished to present in support of his identity.

"I have my commission as a lieutenant, and my orders to take passage
in the Vernon, and to take command of the Bronx on my arrival at the
station of the Eastern Gulf squadron," said Corny, as he pulled a huge
envelope from his breast pocket; and Christy could not but notice the
perfect confidence with which he spoke.

"I have precisely the same papers," added Christy, with as much
assurance as his cousin.

"I had nearly forgotten the most important evidence that can be
presented in this matter," said the captain with a smile. "I dare say
that each of the gentlemen will produce his commission, his orders, and
his appointment to the command of the Bronx; and I don't know how we can
decide between the papers. It looks as though the Bronx was likely to
have two commanders."

"Here are my papers, captain," added Corny, as he passed his envelope
across the table to the commander.

"This is not an official envelope," said the captain, as he took the
package, and then fixed his gaze on the owner of the documents.

"No, sir; it is not. I had the misfortune to leave it on the table at
Bonnydale, and Walsh, the man-servant, supposing it to be of no value,
threw it into the fire," replied Corny promptly.

The commission and other papers were all right in every respect. Christy
handed his envelope to the commander, and he broke it open. It contained
nothing but a lot of blank paper.




CHAPTER VII

THE ANNOUNCEMENT OF THE DECISION


When Captain Battleton took from the envelope the blank papers, no one
seemed to be inquisitive as to the result, for, as the commander had
suggested, they all expected to find the commission and other papers
regularly and properly made out and signed. Several sheets were unfolded
and spread out upon the table, and Christy was hardly more surprised
than the others at the table.

"Your papers do not seem to be altogether regular, Mr. Passford," said
the captain, as he held up one of them so that all could see it.

"I see they are not," answered Christy blankly.

"But they are enclosed in an official envelope," added the captain,
as he held up the cover of the papers. "In this respect they have the
advantage of those presented by the other gentleman. You appear to be as
much surprised as any of the rest of us, Mr. Passford. Can you explain
the fact that you present nothing but blank papers instead of your
commission and orders?"

"At present I cannot; after I have had an opportunity for reflection
I may be able to do so," replied Christy, from whom a more decided
demonstration than he made was expected.

"It is evident from what we have heard, and from the documents submitted
to me that one of these gentlemen is Lieutenant Christopher Passford,"
said Captain Battleton; "but we have no means of identifying the
officer. In what vessels have you served, Mr. Passford?"

"My first service was in the Bellevite, and my last in the Bronx, of
which I was acting commander on her voyage from New York to the Gulf,"
answered Christy, to whom the question was addressed.

"Is there any officer on board with whom you have served?"

"So far as I have seen, there is not."

"Any seaman?"

"I have not noticed any seaman whose face was familiar to me."

"If I am correctly informed, you came home as prize master of the Vixen,
convoying quite a fleet of steamers and schooners," continued Captain
Battleton, looking about the cabin as though the inquiry had become
wearisome to him.

"I did; you were correctly informed," answered Corny, as the wandering
gaze of the commander rested upon him.

"Both of you were in command of the Vixen, I suppose," added the captain
with a smile.

"I was, captain; but I cannot speak for my cousin Corny," replied the
possessor of the commission.

"I can say with entire confidence that I was in command of the Vixen,"
added Christy.

"A considerable number of officers and seamen must have come with you in
the Vixen and the other vessels," said the captain, raising his finger
to indicate that the question was addressed to Christy.

"Yes, sir; the Vixen was fully armed and manned to protect the fleet of
prize vessels she convoyed."

"Do you remember the names of the officers who served with you in the
Vixen?" asked the captain.

"I could not very well forget them in so short a time," replied Corny,
upon whom the gaze of the commander had again rested as he looked about
him.

"Very well; perhaps you had better answer the question;" and the captain
pointed at Corny. "Who was your first lieutenant?"

"Ensign Gordon Fillbrook," replied Corny promptly.

This was a correct answer, and Christy saw that his cousin had fully
armed himself for his daring scheme, whatever it was.

"Your second lieutenant?"

"Ensign Frederick Jones," answered Corny, with some hesitation.

"Now will you inform me, Mr. Passford, who your officers were?" The
commander pointed at Christy. "Your executive officer?"

"My cousin gave his name and rank correctly."

"And the second lieutenant?"

"Ensign Philip Bangs."

"Here you differ. Did you make a report of your voyage home, Lieutenant
Passford?" continued the captain, pointing at Corny.

"I did, sir; for we captured a privateer on the voyage," answered Corny.

"Did you keep a copy of that report?"

"I did, captain; I keep copies of all my reports. I have them in my
valise," answered he of the South in a matter-of-fact manner.

Christy laughed in spite of the importance of the investigation at the
coolness and self-possession of his cousin; but he could not understand
how Corny would be able to produce a copy of his report, which was in
his valise with several such papers.

"I must trouble you to produce it, Lieutenant Passford," added the
commander.

"Perhaps I ought to say in the beginning that it is not in my own
handwriting, for after I had written it, Mr. Jones copied it for me,"
Corny explained, and, perhaps, thought he might be called upon to give a
specimen of his chirography.

"That is immaterial," added Captain Battleton, as Corny left the cabin
to procure the document. "Have you a copy of your report, Lieutenant
Passford?" He pointed to Christy.

"I have, captain; and it is in my own handwriting," replied the officer
addressed.

"Produce it, if you please."

He had placed his valise in the gangway, and he had not far to go to
procure the report, his first draft of the document, which he had
revised and copied at Bonnydale.

"I don't think we are getting ahead at all, Mr. Salisbury," said the
captain, while the cousins were looking for their reports.

"I confess that I am as much in the dark as I was in the beginning,"
replied the executive officer.

"I can make nothing of it," added the surgeon. "It looks to me as though
the commission alone would have to settle this matter."

"I don't see how I can go behind the official documents," replied the
commander as Corny presented himself at the door.

A minute later Christy appeared with his report in his hand, and both
of them were presented to the captain. The handwriting was as different
as possible in the two papers. Corny's was in a large, coarse hand, but
it was a fair copy, while Christy's contained several corrections and
inter-lineations. No one could recognize the writing of either of the
claimants, and the documents proved nothing at all. The captain was
evidently weary of the investigation, and nothing but the commission
seemed to throw any reliable light upon the claim of either one or the
other.

"Any further questions, Mr. Salisbury?" asked the captain, bestowing a
bored look upon the executive officer.

"Nothing more, Captain Battleton."

"Dr. Connelly?"

"Nothing, captain."

"Now, gentlemen, I will thank you to retire to the ward room, and I
will send for you to hear my decision," continued the commander, and
the cousins retired together, and both of them appeared to be as
good-natured as though they were in perfect accord on the question
in dispute.

"What is your opinion, Mr. Salisbury?" asked the captain, when the
claimants had retired, careful not to indicate his own conclusion.

"While I acknowledge that I am somewhat prepossessed in favor of the
Lieutenant Passford who came on board this morning, I do not think
he has established his claim to be the true Lieutenant Christopher
Passford. The other uses some peculiarly Southern phrases, as though he
had been 'raised' in the South, and he is not perfect in the geography
of Bonnydale. I think the commission is the only evidence upon which you
can properly rely," replied the first lieutenant.

"Your views, if you please, Dr. Connelly."

"One of these officers is evidently a Confederate, and the other a loyal
citizen. The commission, as Mr. Salisbury suggests, outweighs all the
rest of the evidence. One or the other of the two men is an impostor,
and without the commission, I should decide that my patient was the
false Lieutenant Passford," answered the surgeon.

"We appear to agree, gentlemen, for you have expressed my own views
as well as I could state them myself," added the captain. "But when I
decide that the holder of the commission, which I am satisfied is a
genuine document, is the loyal officer, and entitled to be received as
the future commander of the Bronx, I must declare that the other is a
Confederate; and not only that, but also that he is acting as a spy;
that he is on board of the Vernon with mischievous intentions. It will
be my duty to regard him as a prisoner of war, at least. What do you
think of it, Mr. Salisbury?"

"I do not see how you can escape that conclusion," replied the first
lieutenant.

"I am a sort of peace officer," added Dr. Connelly, when the captain
glanced at him, "and I will express no opinion as to the status of the
officer, though it appears to be as you describe it."

"This is an informal conference, doctor, and I hope you will express
your views freely," said the captain.

"There is something in the situation which I cannot explain. I will only
say that it is just possible there is a conspiracy at the bottom of the
whole affair; and I should think it would be well to keep a close watch
upon both of these officers. Why, on the voyage of the Bronx to the
Gulf, Ensign Passford, as he was then, discovered two Confederate
officers in his crew, and squarely defeated their efforts to capture
his ship in the action with the Scotian, I believe it was."

"I have heard of it; and in quite a number of instances, Confederates
have been put on board of steamers for the purpose of taking them from
their officers," added the captain. "At the same time, I do not see that
I can decide this question on any other evidence than that of the
commission and other official documents."

Both of the other officers assented to this view, and the captain sent
for the two claimants. Neither of them had spoken a word to the other
during their stay in the ward room. Christy looked upon his cousin as a
Confederate who was serving what he called his country, and he had not
the slightest disposition to quarrel with him, and especially not to
lead him to utter any unnecessary falsehoods. Possibly Corny was
somewhat diffident about playing his assumed character before his cousin
when they were alone, for they had always been the best of friends.

"Gentlemen, I have come to a decision in this matter," said the captain,
when the two claimants had placed themselves before him in a standing
position. "I cannot go behind the commission presented by the officer
who came on board last evening, and I consider it my duty to regard him
as the real Lieutenant Passford, recently promoted to his present rank.
There is nothing more to be said."

"Of course I expected that would be your decision," replied Corny, as
he took the papers which the captain returned to him, including his
commission and report.

"You may retire now, if you please, Mr. Passford," added the commander.

Corny bowed politely to the officers at the table, and left the cabin.
He did not even glance at Christy, and his face did not look like that
of one who had just won a decided victory. Christy remained standing
where he had placed himself; and he began to wonder what disposition
would be made of him under present circumstances.




CHAPTER VIII

THE PRISONER OF WAR


After rendering his decision it was evident that Captain Battleton had
something to say to Christy, for he waited in silence till Corny had
closed the door behind him before he even looked at the officer standing
before him. The lieutenant from the moment the envelopes were opened and
their contents exposed to the view of all present, had fully expected
the result just announced. Whatever he thought, suspected, or surmised
when he saw the blank papers taken from his official envelope, he kept
to himself.

"You have heard the decision I have just given, Mr. Passford, for I have
no doubt that is your real name," said the captain, when the cabin door
was closed.

"I have, captain," replied Christy, bowing respectfully.

"Have you anything to say in regard to it?"

"Nothing at all," replied Christy, bowing again, and bearing himself
with the dignity of a veteran officer; and in the matter of demeanor,
the Confederate Captain Carboneer had presented to him one of the best
models he had seen, both in action and as a prisoner.

"You do not wish to make any explanation of the remarkable situation in
which you find yourself placed at the present moment?"

"At present, I do not, captain."

"You certainly could not have been aware that your official envelope
contained only blank paper. I cannot believe that one more simple-minded
than I believe you to be would have had the effrontery to present such
matter as evidence that he was an officer of the United States Navy,"
continued Captain Battleton, with a look of greater severity than he had
before assumed, possibly because he realized that the real Lieutenant
Passford was higher in rank than he was himself.

"I supposed the official envelope contained my commission and orders."

"You believe that your papers were taken from you, and the blanks
substituted for them?"

"I cannot explain the matter at present, and you must excuse me from
offering merely vague suspicions and conjectures."

"Do you realize your present situation, Mr. Passford?" asked the
captain, apparently disappointed at the unwillingness of the young man
to attempt an explanation.

"I think I do, captain, and I submit to your authority as the commander
of the ship," answered Christy, with a dignified bow.

"As I said before, I have no doubt you are a Passford; and I have been
compelled to decide that you are not the son of Captain Horatio
Passford, the distinguished gentleman who has done so much for his
country in the present war."

"With the evidence before you, I do not see how you could have decided
otherwise."

"Whether the decision be just or not, I am obliged to regard you as son
of the Homer Passford who supports the government of the Confederacy.
You and the other Mr. Passford have recognized each other as cousins."

"We are cousins."

"Then it follows that one of the two must be a Confederate who is on
board of a United States ship for some purpose not yet explained, but
fairly supposed to be hostile."

"I admit the correctness of your conclusion."

"I have already recognized the Union officer, and therefore you must be
the Confederate."

"Without reflecting upon your decision, I must deny that I am a
Confederate, and proclaim that my motto is 'Stand by the Union!'"

"In spite of your denial and your motto, I shall have to regard you as
a prisoner of war, and treat you as such," said the captain, rising from
his chair, the others following his example.

"I submit to your authority, Captain Battleton," replied Christy, bowing
to the commander.

"But I do not wish to subject you to any unnecessary restraint, and I
shall be willing to accept your parole that you will engage in no
hostile movement on board of the Vernon," continued the captain, in
milder tones.

"I cannot accept a parole, captain, for that would be equivalent to an
admission that I am a Confederate; and I claim to be a loyal officer."

"If you are, I am sorry that you are unable to prove your claim. I have
only one officer on board as a passenger, for the reason that I had only
one spare stateroom. There is no place for you in the ward room, and it
does not appear that you are an officer."

"I shall find no fault with my accommodations, whatever they are,"
replied Christy.

"I must object to your wearing the shoulder straps of a lieutenant on
board of the Vernon," added Captain Battleton.

"I have a plain frock in my valise which I wore when the Teaser was
captured," added Christy with a smile. "I will remove my coat and wear
that."

"Now I will see where I can find a place for you to berth," said the
captain as he left the cabin.

"I am sorry you did not explain the blank paper in your envelope, Mr.
Passford," said the surgeon, as they were leaving the cabin.

"I cannot explain it--how can I?" replied Christy. "Whoever took out my
papers and put the blanks in their place, did not make me his confidant
in the operation."

"But can you not recall some event or circumstance which will throw some
light on the mystery?" persisted Dr. Connelly.

"I can; but I have not had time to consider any events or circumstances,
and it would not be treating Captain Battleton with proper respect to
submit a string of crude conjectures to him."

At this moment the captain appeared in the gangway, and interrupted the
conversation. He informed the prisoner of war, as he chose to regard
him, that he had directed the carpenter to put up a temporary berth for
him. Christy opened his valise, and took from it his frock, which he put
on after he had disposed of his coat. Then he looked like a common
sailor. He was informed that his berth was just forward of the steerage,
in that part of the steamer where the men slung their hammocks. The
third lieutenant was directed to show him to the place indicated.

The carpenter and his assistants were still at work on the berth, and
Christy, placing his valise near it, seated himself by it. For the first
time since he came on board of the Vernon he had an opportunity to
reflect upon the events of the day. Corny Passford was the present
master of the situation. He had not been aware till he met him in the
captain's cabin, that his cousin was even in the vicinity of New York.
With an amount of assurance for which he had not given him credit, Corny
had undertaken to personate his nautical relative, and was now actually
on his way to the Gulf to take command of the Bronx.

The little gunboat had certainly done a great deal of mischief to
the Confederate interests, for she had captured two valuable vessels
intended for the southern navy, to say nothing of half a dozen others
loaded with cotton, and ready to sail. From the Confederate point of
view, it was exceedingly desirable that she should be prevented from
doing any further injury to the maritime interests of the South. But it
seemed almost incredible that Corny Passford should be employed to bring
about her capture by stratagem. His cousin was not a sailor; at least,
he had not been one the last time he had met him, and it was hardly
possible that he had learned seamanship, navigation, and naval tactics
in so short a time, and so far as Christy knew, with little practical
experience.

He had seen the commission which Corny presented to the captain of the
Vernon, and recognized it as his own. In spite of the statements his
cousin had made, Christy saw that the handwriting of the report he
submitted as a copy of the genuine document was in Corny's usual
handwriting. Where had he obtained the commission, and where the
original report? These were not hard questions, now that the
preliminaries of the plot had been fully developed.

Walsh, the man-servant at Bonnydale, was now a seaman on board of the
Vernon, under the real or assumed name of Byron. He denied his identity,
as he would naturally do under the circumstances; but Christy had not
a doubt that he was the man who had suddenly disappeared after the
mysterious visitation of the night before. Doubtless, Corny had been the
visitor at the mansion, and had procured the contents of the official
envelope on this occasion.

He appeared to have been unwilling to trust Byron, as the seaman
preferred to be called, and had attended to the business in person with
the assistance of his confederate. The report was lying on the table in
his chamber, and Byron could have borrowed it for any length of time to
enable Corny to make a copy. Whoever had visited his chamber in the
night, whether Corny or the man-servant, he must have taken the official
envelope to the library, or some other part of the house, for it had
been carefully opened, and restored to its former condition after the
genuine documents in it had been replaced by the blank paper.

It was now all as clear to Christy as though he had observed the
proceedings of the conspirators, and taken notes of all they had done.
The purpose of all these operations was quite as obvious as the details
of the scheme. Either the Vernon or the Bronx was to be captured,
perhaps both, for of course Christy could not determine in what manner
the mischief was to be accomplished. Prisoner of war as he was, he never
felt burdened with a greater responsibility than when he realized the
actual situation.

This responsibility was not of a personal nature. He did not have the
feeling that he had been vanquished in the contest before the captain,
and the fact that he was a prisoner hardly disturbed him. It was the
prospective injury to the cause of his country which occasioned his
solicitude. His object was to save the Vernon, the Bronx, or both, from
being handed over to the enemy without a struggle to save them, one or
both.

He had no fault to find with the captain for his decision against
him, which seemed to be natural and warrantable. He had no ill-feeling
against his cousin, for he was trying to serve the cause he had
espoused. He was even willing to believe that he would have done the
same thing himself under like circumstances.

After he had considered the subject for a couple of hours he went back
to one of his first points, relating to the fitness and capacity of
Corny to accomplish the task he had undertaken. It was evident enough
on the face of it that his cousin, even if he had been a veteran naval
officer, could not carry out the plan alone. He must have confederates,
in the double sense, on board of the Vernon. In the early stages of the
war, men who had served in the navy as officers were coming home from
all parts of the world to take part on one side or the other in the
struggle. Those even who were disloyal could obtain commissions in
the loyal navy if their consciences would let them take the oath of
allegiance with a mental reservation. Christy had encountered several
of this kind.

Many of the seamen were foreigners who cared little on which side they
served, and one or more of the four officers in the ward room might be
at work for the Confederacy. Christy thought he was in an excellent
position to investigate the matter, and he decided that this should be
his first duty. Among the crew there must be some who were to take part
in the plot of Corny, whatever it was.

Before the close of the conference the Atlantic had begun to be quite
"sloppy," and the Vernon was now laboring in an ugly cross sea, which
caused her to roll heavily.




CHAPTER IX

A MORAL PHILOSOPHER.


The temporary berth was finished, the bedding put into it, and Christy
took possession of it. For the present he had done all the thinking he
cared to do, and he felt that his present duty was in action. He was a
prisoner of war, and as such he was in disgrace in a loyal ship's
company; at least, he felt that he was so under present circumstances.
He was not disgusted at his failure to establish his identity, nor
disheartened at the prospect before him. More than ever before in the
two years of his experience as a naval officer, he realized that it was
his duty to "Stand by the Union."

The watch below were all around him. Some of them were mending their
clothes, others were reading newspapers they had brought with them, but
the greater part of them were in squads engaged in talking about the
events of the war. The nearest group to Christy were conversing about
the two lieutenants who claimed to be the real officer ordered to the
command of the Bronx. It seemed rather strange to the listener that they
should know anything about the events which had happened in the secrecy
of the captain's cabin, and this circumstance led him to believe that at
least one of the officers of the ship must be a confederate of Corny.

There was nothing necessarily secret in the proceedings in the cabin,
and the stewards might have heard what was said in the ward room after
the decision had been rendered, reporting it to members of the crew,
who had circulated it as the latest news. At any rate, the group near
Christy were talking about the two officers who claimed to be Lieutenant
Passford. They spoke in low tones, and Christy could hardly hear what
they said. His berth was ready for him, and he concluded to lie down in
it. He took no notice of the speakers, and soon pretended to be asleep.

"Do you know who is in that berth, Warton?" asked one of the four men,
speaking in a low tone, but loud enough to enable Christy to hear him.

"I don't know; do you, Rockton?" replied the one addressed; and it was
evident to the listener that the men were at least persons of average
education with but little of the common sailor in it.

"I do; one of the officers told me all about it not half an hour
ago," answered Rockton. "The fellow who is asleep there is the other
Passford."

"Is that so? Then we mustn't talk here," added Warton, apparently
somewhat alarmed. "Who told you so?"

"I said one of the officers; and you know as well as I do which one."

The speakers said no more, but leaving the locality near the berth, they
moved forward in a body. Christy was sorry he was not to hear any more
of the conversation; but he felt that he had made some progress in his
work. He had obtained the names of two of the men, and ascertained that
one of the officers in the ward room was a Confederate. With this
information he could the more readily obtain more. Christy did not wish
to sleep, and he felt that he could not afford to spend his time in that
way. He sat up in the berth, and wrote the two names he had heard in his
pocket-diary, in order to make sure that he did not forget them. While
he was thus engaged Dr. Connelly came into the quarters of the crew.

"Well, Mr. Passford, are you all right?" asked the surgeon, as soon as
he discovered Christy in the dim light of the place.

"All right in every respect," replied the young officer cheerfully.

"You are not sea-sick?" inquired the doctor, laughing.

"Sea-sick! No, sir; I believe I never was sea-sick in my life."

"You are more fortunate than your cousin, for he is having quite a hard
time of it," added the doctor, who seemed to be very much amused that
the future commander of the Bronx, who had been to sea so much, should
be afflicted in this manner.

"He was always sea-sick when he first went out, and it appears that he
has not yet got over the habit. He was so badly off on one occasion that
my father thought of taking him on shore, and sending him back to Mobile
by land."

"Do you refer to the lieutenant appointed to the command of the Bronx on
our arrival in the Gulf?" asked Dr. Connelly, laughing.

"I do not; I am that person myself," replied Christy very decidedly. "By
the way, I wonder that the commander did not subject the two claimants
to an examination in navigation and seamanship. It might have thrown
some light on the subject."

"Probably Captain Battleton did not think of that, taking it for granted
that you were both sailors; but the other Mr. Passford is not in
condition to undergo such an examination at present."

"I do not ask for it, though of course I am anxious to have the truth
come out, for just now I am in disgrace as an impostor, to say nothing
of being regarded as an enemy of the Union," replied Christy. "He
who occupies a stateroom in the steamer is my own cousin, and the
pleasantest relations have always subsisted between our families. I have
nothing against him personally, and I would do him a kindness as readily
as ever before in my life."

"But he has placed you in a very awkward position, Mr. Passford."

"I am willing to believe that he is doing his duty to his country, and
his grand mistake is in believing that the fraction of it in rebellion
is his country."

"If you are the genuine Lieutenant Passford, in spite of the captain's
decision, your cousin has told lies enough to-day to swamp a reprobate,
to to say nothing of a Christian," added the surgeon, seating himself at
the side of the berth.

"I do not regard his statements as lies in any proper sense of the word,
Dr. Connelly," replied Christy with considerable spirit. "I have had
occasion to deceive the enemy on several occasions; and nearly two years
ago I looked up the morality of lying on the field of battle and its
surroundings. I think my father is as good a Christian man as draws the
breath of life, and I found that I simply held to his opinions."

"Your father is good authority," added the surgeon.

"I studied history a little in relation to this subject, for I wanted
to know whether any lies I might tell in serving my country were to
be registered against me. I know that I would not tell a lie in the
ordinary relations of life; but I am sure that I should have been a
traitor to the Union if I had told the enemy the simple truth on several
occasions. I captured a schooner loaded with cotton by pretending to be
what I was not. If it is justifiable to kill a man in war, it must be
justifiable to tell a lie to the enemy."

"I think you are right, Mr. Passford. You spoke of history."

"George Washington is regarded as one who could not tell a lie from the
time the little hatchet story had birth to the end of the Revolution. We
read that he strongly impressed Clinton with the belief that he intended
to attack New York; and the school history says that this deception was
so successfully practised, that Washington was some distance on his way
to Virginia before Clinton suspected where he was leading his army.

"Bancroft says that Clinton was deceived by letters which were written
to be intercepted. The books say that Washington used every art in his
power to deceive Clinton. He wrote letters containing the barefaced
lie that he intended to attack New York when he intended to attack
Cornwallis. It was not a mere white lie, for he intended to deceive. We
don't regard Washington as a liar, and he was not a liar in any proper
sense of the word. All the high-toned generals on both sides in the
present war do not hesitate to deceive the enemy, for it is a part of
their duty to do so. In my judgment, a lie that is acted is the same as
a spoken lie."

"You are a moral philosopher, Mr. Passford," said the surgeon, laughing
at the earnestness of the speaker.

"Hardly, doctor; I looked up the subject for my own benefit. I simply
mean to say that I do not consider my cousin a liar," replied Christy,
who was an earnest debater when he became warm in his subject.

Dr. Connelly left him, and made his tour of inspection among the men.
The steamer was still rolling heavily, and the prisoner found himself
more comfortable in his berth than on the lower deck. He had not yet
learned whether or not he was to remain confined in his present
quarters, and when the surgeon returned from his tour, he asked him
to inquire of the captain in regard to his limits. He was informed that
he could go on deck for an hour in the forenoon, and an hour in the
afternoon. It was nearly night and he did not avail himself of this
permission.

For the next three days it blew a gale, moderating at times, and then
piping up again. To a sailor it was not bad weather, but Christy learned
from the surgeon that his cousin was confined to his berth during all
this time. The prisoner went on deck for the time permitted each
forenoon and afternoon. He had his eyes wide open all the time, on the
lookout for anything that would afford him further information in regard
to the plot in the midst of which he was living.

He identified Rockton and Warton, but not the other two who had formed
the group near his berth, on his first visit to the deck. On the fourth
day out, he saw one of these men talking cautiously to the second
lieutenant. Following up this clew he satisfied himself that Mr.
Galvinne was the black sheep in the officers' quarters. Corny came on
deck that day, for the sea was comparatively smooth, and took a seat on
the quarter-deck.

Christy did not go near him, but he watched him very closely. He had not
long to wait before Mr. Galvinne, who was then the officer of the deck,
spoke to him, and they had quite a long conversation. He could not hear
a word of it; but the fact that they were intimate enough to hold what
appeared to be a confidential interview was enough to satisfy the
prisoner that the second lieutenant was the principle confederate of his
cousin. How many of the crew were "packed" for the enterprise he could
form no idea.

The weather continued favorable till the end of the cruise, and then on
the eighth day the Vernon arrived near her destination off Pensacola
Bay. Thus far no attempt had been made to capture the steamer, and the
plot was as dark as it had been in the beginning. Christy thought that
Corny was becoming somewhat nervous when the vessels of the squadron
were made out in the distance.

"There appear to be only three steamers in sight," said the captain, who
had come into the waist to observe the fleet.

"That is the flag-ship, I think, anchored the farthest from the shore,"
replied Mr. Galvinne, to whom the remark had been addressed.

"I suppose that is the Bronx astern of her," added Captain Battleton.
"It is the smallest of the three, at any rate. Mr. Salisbury, you will
run directly for the flag-ship," he added to the executive officer on
the quarter-deck.

Christy recognized the Bronx if others did not, for none of the officers
had been on this station before. He wondered if the present deception
was likely to be carried out to the accomplishment of the end the
conspirators had in view. He could see nothing to prevent its
accomplishment.

"I must ask you to report below, Mr. Passford," said the captain rather
sternly; and perhaps he did not care to be charged with over-indulgence
of his prisoner.

He bowed submissively, and went to his berth in the men's quarters. The
anchor had been cast loose, and the cable put in condition to run out.
Christy had hardly reached his berth before he heard the rattle of the
chain, and the voyage was ended.




CHAPTER X

A CHANGE OF QUARTERS IN THE CONFUSION


Christy obeyed the order of Captain Battleton when he was directed to
report below; but he felt that he was permitting the plot of his cousin
to be carried out without any opposition, and without any attempt to
check its progress. But he was a prisoner, and he realized that he could
do nothing. His case had been tried, and he had been condemned to his
present condition. It was useless to appeal to the captain, for he had
already passed upon all the facts that had been presented before him.

Seated on the side of his berth he considered the situation very
faithfully. The Bronx lay off St. Rosa's Island; she was on the
blockade, evidently ready to trip her anchor, whenever occasion should
require. In regard to her officers Christy only knew that Mr. Flint was
in temporary command of her, in place of Mr. Blowitt, who had become the
executive officer of the Bellevite. The other officers must have been
appointed for temporary service.

As Christy viewed the matter, there appeared to be no obstacle to the
success of Corny's scheme for the capture of the Bronx, unless it was
Mr. Flint, who might or might not discover that the new commander was an
impostor. If his old associate saw the two cousins together, he would
have no difficulty in determining which was his former commander; seeing
Corny alone he might be deceived. With the flag-officer, who had seen
Christy but once or twice, he was not likely to suspect that Corny was
an impostor.

The Bronx had but one officer on board who had been permanently
appointed to her, and at least two others must be selected to serve
on board of her. It would be an easy matter for Corny to procure the
appointment of Mr. Galvinne, who was doubtless competent to handle the
vessel as the impostor certainly was not.

When he realized that the scheme of his cousin, or whoever had devised
it, was in a fair way to accomplish its object, Christy felt that he
must do something. Though he was a prisoner and in disgrace, he did not
feel that he was absolved from the duty of attempting to save the Bronx
to the Union. He had refused to accept a parole, or anything of that
kind, and his honor as an officer did not require him to submit to the
discipline of his situation. He was a prisoner; but the responsibility
of retaining him as such belonged to the captain of the Vernon for the
present.

His reflections relieved him of all scruples in regard to any action he
might resolve to take. He was held in confinement as a Confederate. When
he had been taken by the enemy and locked up as a Union prisoner, he had
considered his duty, independently of his desire to be free, and he had
effected his escape with Flint. In the present instance his confinement
was not irksome, but he felt more keenly than before that he ought to do
something to save the little gunboat; and he could do nothing without
first getting into a position where he could act.

Between the decks of the Vernon, he could do nothing; he could not even
see what was going on, though he had no doubt the captain was in the act
of reporting to the flag-officer. Probably Corny would go off in the
first boat to report for duty, and receive his orders. The seamen
who were simply passengers on board of the steamer, were below in
considerable numbers, gathering up their bags, and preparing for the
transfer to the flag-ship, or to the Bronx, for there were no other
vessels near to receive them.

Christy felt very much like a caged tiger. He had hoped that the
Bellevite would be on the station when he arrived, for there were plenty
of officers and seamen on board of her who could identify him beyond the
possibility of a doubt. In that case he intended to make a strong appeal
to Captain Battleton, for he would then have the means of arriving at a
correct conclusion. Then he could explain in what manner he had been
robbed of his papers with some chance of having his statement accepted.

The prisoner walked up and down the lower deck, doing his best to
conceal the agitation which had taken possession of him. No one took any
notice of him, for the seamen had become accustomed to the presence of
the captive officer. While he was struggling to contain his emotions, he
heard the rattle of the cable again, and saw the chain descending to the
locker below.

"What does that mean, my man?" asked Christy of one of the men near him.
"They appear to be weighing the anchor."

"That is what they are doing," replied the man indifferently.

"What is that for?"

"The flag officer has not told me yet what he is about, and I am not
good at guessing, though I am a Yankee," replied the man chuckling,
as though he believed he had said something funny.

"The flag-officer has signalled for the Vernon to come alongside,"
interposed another seaman who had heard the question.

"Thank you, my man," replied Christy, beginning at once to consider how
this change would affect him.

"The Bronx is getting under way also," said the civil tar, who evidently
had some sympathy for the prisoner. "Probably she is also ordered
alongside. Twenty-five of us have been detailed to serve on board of
her, and I am one of them."

"Then I may see you again, my friend. Thank you for your information,
and will you give me your name?" added Christy.

"My name is Ralph Pennant; I have a sea-going name, and I suppose
that is the reason why I went to sea," replied the seaman, with a
good-natured laugh. "I have been the mate of a steamer, but I could not
get any better position than that of able seaman, and I wanted to be in
this stir-up."

"I have no doubt you will work your way up in good time," added Christy,
who saw that Pennant was an intelligent and reliable man, though it was
possible from the appearance of his face that he had been in the habit
of imbibing too much whiskey for his own good.

In a short time the Vernon was alongside the flag-ship. Christy had put
his uniform coat in his valise, and still wore the frock he had taken
from it. He had removed his linen collar, and put on a woollen shirt and
a seaman's cap, for he did not care to be taken for an officer among the
crew. He carried his valise to the vicinity of the forehatch, and looked
up through the opening to ascertain what he could of the movements on
board.

"There comes the Bronx," said a seaman standing at the head of the
ladder.

"Ay, ay; and she is coming alongside the Vernon," added another.

The store-ship had been made fast to the flag-ship, and at this moment
came a call for all hands to go aft. Christy could not endure the
suspense any longer, and taking his valise in his hand he went on deck,
just as the Bronx came alongside. Mr. Flint was on duty with a couple
of young officers, and gave the orders to make her fast to the Vernon.
Captain Battleton was going up the side of the flag-ship, followed by
Corny.

Christy put his valise in a convenient place, and then concealed himself
in the firemen's quarters under the top-gallant forecastle. He found a
place beneath a bunk which would effectually conceal him unless a very
thorough search should be made for him. But he only kept this place as a
resort in case of emergency, for he placed himself where he could see
out at the door; and it was a good location to overlook all that took
place on the quarter-deck where the officers were, and the waist where
the men had been assembled.

The second lieutenant was calling over a list of names, which Christy
concluded was the draft of seamen for the Bronx. Possibly Captain
Passford had used some influence in this selection, for all the other
hands were to be put on board of the flag-ship to be assigned to such
vessels as needed to be reinforced by the officers of the staff.

As the names were called the men passed over to the starboard side, with
their bags in their hands, for there was evidently to be no delay in
making the transfer. But it was a full hour before Captain Battleton
and Corny returned from the flag-ship. The prisoner on the forecastle
thought his cousin looked very complacent, and his return indicated
that his plot had not miscarried, and that the flag-officer had not
challenged the identity of the future commander of the Bronx.

Corny's first movement on board of the Vernon was to take the hand of
Mr. Galvinne, whom he appeared to be congratulating on a promotion or
appointment. The second lieutenant promptly handed his lists to the
third lieutenant, Mr. Winter, who proceeded with the calling of the
names. Corny and Mr. Galvinne immediately went below, and Christy
concluded that the officer he had spotted as the traitor had been
appointed to the little gunboat, either as first or second lieutenant,
and that they were making their preparations to go on board of her. In a
few minutes they appeared with the steward of the ward room carrying
their baggage.

Corny politely saluted Mr. Flint, the acting commander of the gunboat.
Mr. Galvinne was introduced, and there was plenty of bowing and formal
politeness. Corny presented his commission and orders for the inspection
of the officer in command, and for the present the formalities were
completed. Corny was evidently in command of the Bronx; but Christy
could not determine the position of Mr. Flint, and he watched his
movements with intense interest for some time.

The late acting-commander did not leave the deck, as he would have been
likely to do if he had been relieved and ordered to report on board of
the flag-ship, though he might have been superseded as executive
officer,--a position which he was clearly entitled to hold. A little
later, the draft of seamen were ordered to file on board of the Bronx.
Then the observer saw Mr. Galvinne, with a rather pompous gesture point
to the men who were coming on board, and say something he could not hear
to Mr. Flint. He had evidently directed him to receive the seamen as
they came on deck. This indicated that the late second lieutenant of the
Vernon had been appointed executive officer of the Bronx.

Christy felt that the time for action had come. Taking his valise in his
hand he joined the file of men, and cleverly inserting himself between
a couple of them, he went on the deck of the Bronx without being
challenged as to his right to do so. Doubtless Captain Battleton had
reported that he had a prisoner on board, though he had not had time to
tell the whole story of the investigation, which had probably been
postponed to a more convenient time. Mr. Flint went forward to receive
the seamen as they came on deck, and he ordered them to pipe below and
leave their bags there.

"Where is your bag?" asked Mr. Flint, as Christy, the actual commander
of the Bronx, passed him. "What are you doing with a valise?"

"I have no bag, sir," replied Christy in submissive tones.

"Find a bag, for we shall throw that valise overboard," added Mr. Flint.

"I don't think you will, sir, after the circumstances have been
explained."

Suddenly the officer started back, and began to look very sharply at the
presumed sailor. But the file pressed behind him, and Christy was too
glad to move with it to delay a moment longer. He went below to the
familiar quarters of the crew, and saw many of his old seamen still on
board, though many of them had been taken to reinforce other vessels.

Christy deposited his valise in a secure place near the door leading
into the steerage. All hands were on deck attending to the transfer of
seamen, even to the stewards. The way was clear, and the late prisoner
promptly decided what to do. He thought the captain's cabin was the
proper place for him, and he went there.




CHAPTER XI

LAYING OUT A PLAN OF OPERATIONS


Christy had deposited his valise in a place where it was not likely to
be seen unless a search was made for it. There was no one in the ward
room to obstruct his advance to the captain's cabin. He had served as
acting-commander of the vessel in a voyage from New York to the Gulf,
and been the executive officer on board for a short term, and he was
perfectly at home in every part of her. In the conspiracy on his last
voyage in the Bronx, Pink Mulgrum had concealed himself under the
berth in the captain's stateroom, where Dave, the cabin steward, had
discovered him, though he might have remained there a month if his
hiding-place had not been suspected.

Christy thought this would be an excellent retreat for him, not only
because it promised him the greatest security, but because it would
permit him to hear what passed between the pretended commander and
others, especially Mr. Galvinne. He had been reasonably confident of
returning to the gunboat when he went to the North as prize master,
though not as her commander, and he had left his trunk on board.

It was a humiliating posture for the actual commander of the vessel, but
he promptly got down upon the floor of the stateroom, and crawled under
the berth. He placed the trunk and some other articles there so as to
form a sort of breast-work, behind which he carefully bestowed himself.
It was not an uncomfortable position, for the floor was carpeted and an
old satchel filled with his cast-off garments furnished him a pillow
sufficiently soft for a person on extraordinary duty.

The cabin was to be occupied by Corny, though his cousin had no doubt
that Mr. Galvinne was the real leader in the adventure of capturing the
steamer. Both of them would be obliged to keep up appearances for the
present. Christy's first thought after he had settled himself in his
new quarters related to the cabin steward, who had served him very
faithfully, and whom he had brought off in the Teaser, the former name
of the Bronx. He had no doubt he was still on board, and probably acting
in his former capacity, for Mr. Flint knew that he was attached to the
man for the service he had rendered, not only to him but to his country.
He was absolutely sure that Dave could be trusted under any and all
circumstances, and the first thing he did would be to make a connection
with him.

Christy became rather impatient because the Bronx did not get under
way; but he concluded from such sounds as came to his ears that she
was taking in shot, shells, and powder, as well as stores and supplies.
At any rate, neither Corny nor his first lieutenant came into the cabin,
so far as he could ascertain. But he had not been in his hiding-place
an hour before he heard a noise in the adjoining apartment. It was not
the commander, for the noise was an occasional rapping; it was not an
unfamiliar sound to him, for he had often heard it before when he lay in
his berth. Dave was a remarkably neat person, and he was always dusting
the cabin and stateroom when he had nothing else to do. He was sure that
the rapping was caused by the steward's feather duster.

In a few minutes, when he had made the cabin tidy for the reception of
"Massa Cap'n Passford," he transferred his labors to the stateroom. He
worked in the berth and all its surroundings, including the desk, which
still contained the real commander's papers, and then gave his attention
to the trunk beneath.

"Dave," said Christy, after he had obtained a view of the back of the
steward's head which satisfied him that he was the right man.

"Mullygumps!" exclaimed Dave, as he suspended his labors on the trunk.

No doubt he was greatly surprised to hear his name, pronounced as though
it came up through the deck, as he had abundant reason to be.

"Dave," repeated Christy, in a more decided tone after he had heard the
voice of the steward.

"Is that you, Pink Mulgrum?" demanded Dave. "I give you the whole State
of Alabama, but I thought we done rid of you long ago. Who's there?"

"Don't you know me, Dave?" asked Christy, speaking out plainly so that
the steward might recognize his voice.

"Maggywogs! That sounds like Massa Christy's voice; but I done seen him
on deck five or ten minutes ago."

"No, you didn't, Dave; that was Corny," replied Christy.

"Gollywops! But he was in command of the Bronx, for I done seen Mr.
Flint hand it over to him. Go 'way! You can't fool this colored person."

"I tell you the truth, Dave; but things are mixed," added Christy.

"I believe you; they be mixed if you be the captain when I done seen him
on deck just now."

"Sit down on the floor, Dave, and I will tell you all about it,"
continued Christy, though the difficulty of convincing the steward was
not unexpected.

"Let me see your face before you told me anything," persisted Dave, as
he pulled out one end of the trunk, and dropped upon his knees where he
could see under the berth.

Christy crawled to the front of the berth, and thrust his head out into
the stateroom in as natural a position as he could place it.

"Wollywogs! You look like Massa Christy, for sure," exclaimed Dave, as
he gave himself up to a study of the face presented to him. "But the
captain looks like Massa Christy too."

"You have never seen my cousin Corny, I believe, Dave; but he looks like
me. Now sit down, and I will tell you all about it."

"I never saw Massa Corny; but I done hear enough about him when I was at
Bonnydale. Show me your knife and your watch, Massa Christy."

He complied with the request, as he saw that it was a very simple means
of identification, for the steward had some skill as a mechanic, and
he had frequently sharpened the knife, and knew the repeater of the
lieutenant from having seen it so often, for it was a very peculiar
watch. Dave's last doubt vanished when these articles were produced.

"But the other Massa Passford looks just like you," added Dave.

"If you saw us together you would not mistake him for me," replied
Christy, as he proceeded to explain the situation to the steward, upon
whom he depended for very important assistance.

He related the incidents which had occurred at Bonnydale, the loss of
his commission and orders, and the decision of Captain Battleton against
him, concluding with the statement that he was then a prisoner of war,
but had made his escape from the place where he had been required to
remain.

"A prisoner of war!" exclaimed the steward. "The commander of the ship a
prisoner!"

"That is exactly the situation, Dave. Can you tell me what they are
doing on deck?" asked Christy, who began to feel more hopeful of the
future.

"The Bronx is taking in provisions, stores, and ammunition. They say the
captain has his orders, but I don't know about that."

"Can you tell me what position Mr. Flint has on board?"

"He's just what he was before, when you was on board; he is the second
lieutenant, and we have a new man for first, I believe they call him
Gallivan," replied Dave, who was intelligent enough to comprehend what
he saw on deck.

"His name is Galvinne, and he was second lieutenant of the Vernon; but
he is a Confederate. I think he is to be the real commander of the Bronx
if they succeed in getting her into Pensacola," added Christy.

"Into Pensacola!" exclaimed the steward, aghast at the remark.

"Of course my cousin Corny intends to hand the vessel over to the
Confederate government."

"Gollywompus! My old master will get me back then!" groaned Dave, who
had been very happy in his new service and at Bonnydale where he had
spent considerable of his time while Christy was waiting for the fitting
out of the Bronx. "I think I had better get on board of the flag-ship
right off."

"Don't do it, Dave, for I hope to save the vessel to the Union, and you
can render me the most important service in this matter," added Christy.

"Then I stay for sure; I don't go back on you, Massa Christy," protested
the steward warmly.

"Thank you, Dave."

"There ain't no hole in this millstone for me," continued Dave, suddenly
becoming very thoughtful. "I don't see how Massa Corny can run away with
the steamer when she has her officers and crew on board."

"I have just told you that the first lieutenant is a Confederate
officer; and I have not yet learned who is the third lieutenant. Among
the crew I know there are at least four men, and there may be twenty of
them, who are to take part in this plot. The loyal men will not be
likely to interfere with the officers unless they have a leader. The
fact that the Bronx is headed into a Confederate port would not create a
rebellion on board unless they were informed of the actual situation. By
the time the Union men found out the plot, it would be too late for them
to do anything, for the vessel would be under the guns of the forts."

"But what are we going to do, Massa Christy?" asked the steward, dazzled
by the situation.

"We must recapture the vessel before she gets into port; and what I want
most now is to see Mr. Flint. You must fix the matter in some way, Dave,
so that I can see him. Now go on deck, and ascertain what is going on
there. If you get a chance, speak to Mr. Flint; but be extremely
careful."

"You can trust Dave, Massa Christy," replied the steward, as the officer
drew back into his hiding-place.

Dave arranged the trunk and other articles to the best advantage for the
concealment of the lieutenant, and then left the stateroom. Christy, as
soon as he had become acquainted with the situation, had arranged his
plan of action, and the new officers of the Bronx were likely to
encounter a mutiny, either to inaugurate or end their sway. In less than
half an hour, the steward returned to the stateroom with the information
that he had spoken to the second lieutenant, and informed him that the
real commander of the Bronx was concealed under the berth in the
captain's stateroom.

"Mr. Flint has not had his breakfast yet, and he will come below for it
very soon," added Dave. "He was just coming down for it when he got the
signal to come alongside the flag-ship."

"Did Mr. Flint say anything?" asked Christy.

"Not a word, sir; only said he would be down to his breakfast in a few
minutes."

The lieutenant took out his memorandum book, and looked at the names of
the men he had spotted as disloyal, Rockton and Warton, to which he had
added two others, Nichols and Swayne, after he had observed that they
were very intimate with the two whose names he had learned from their
own mouths.

  [Illustration: Dave Identifies Christy.--Page 130.]

"Now, Dave, I have another commission for you to execute," continued
Christy, as he tore out the leaf on which he had written the names. "Not
less than twenty-five of the crew of the Bronx came from New York in the
Vernon. One of them is Ralph Pennant, and he is an intelligent man, and
one that can be trusted. You will see him. Tell him the commander is an
impostor. Do you know what an impostor is, Dave?"

"I reckon I do, sir; your cousin Corny is an impostor," replied the
steward promptly.

"You will find this man, and give him this paper. The names on it are
those of disloyal men. Tell him to look out for them, and find out as
far as he can who are true to the Union."

Christy had hardly finished his instructions to the steward before he
heard footsteps in the cabin. Dave looked into the apartment and
discovered Mr. Flint, who went into the stateroom at once.




CHAPTER XII

A LESSON IN ORDINARY POLITENESS


Though the second lieutenant of the Bronx had not been to breakfast, it
was not his stomach that made the first demand upon him. He directed the
steward to remain in the gangway and apprise him of the coming of any
person in the direction of the cabin and ward room. Dave took his
station on the steps. Mr. Flint entered the stateroom, and the first
thing he did was to drop down on his knees and thrust his right hand
into the space under the berth. It was instantly grasped by Christy, and
given a warm pressure.

"Is it really you, Captain Passford?" asked the second lieutenant.

"No doubt of it," replied Christy.

"I thought you were somewhat changed in your looks when I saw you come
on board of the Bronx, and then I felt that the greeting you gave me was
rather stiff for an old comrade who had passed some time with you in a
Confederate prison," added Mr. Flint.

"We have no time to talk sentiment now. It is necessary for you to
understand the situation better than you do," interposed Christy; and he
proceeded to explain in what manner his cousin Corny happened to be in
command of the Bronx, while he was himself nominally a prisoner of war.

"Your absence from the between decks of the Vernon has been discovered,
and Captain Battleton has caused the strictest search to be made for you
on board of all three of the ships. The last I saw of him he was
evidently talking with the flag-officer about you, as I judged from his
looks and gestures," replied the second lieutenant.

"He has not found me yet; and I think that the stateroom of the
commander of the Bronx is the last place he will think of looking for
me. But I have no time to talk of merely selfish matters, for I am not
at all worried about my personal safety while we are within Union
lines. If this plot succeeds, and the conspirators get the ship into a
Confederate port, I shall feel differently about this matter. Has any
third lieutenant been appointed, Mr. Flint?"

"There has, captain; he is a young man by the name of Byron; but I did
not learn his rank."

"Byron!" exclaimed Christy, recalling Walsh, and the name he had
insisted was his own when he first encountered him on board of the
Vernon. "He may have a rank in the Confederate navy, but he has none
in that of the Union. In other words, he is a Confederate officer or
seaman, and he is the man who helped Corny steal my commission and
orders."

"We have a nest of them in the cabin--the captain and two officers.
What is to be done? We cannot allow the Bronx to be captured by any
such trick as this, with forty-five loyal seamen on board of her,
to say nothing of myself as a loyal officer."

"All the crew are not loyal," replied Christy, as he explained the
instructions he had given to the steward.

"But most of the crew must be loyal, for twenty of the old seamen
remain on board, and every one of them is as true as steel," Mr. Flint
insisted.

"But the conspirators do not intend that any issue shall be raised
until the vessel is under the guns of a Confederate fort. Doubtless Mr.
Galvinne, whom I look upon as the actual commander of the steamer, for
Corny is no sailor, will run into Pensacola Bay under the American flag.
Probably he is a pilot in these waters, and knows what signal to make to
the Confederate forts."

"I don't believe he would attempt to run in while it is broad daylight,"
suggested Mr. Flint. "Captain Corny already has his sailing orders. They
are sealed, but he is to proceed to the eastward. I should say that he
would obey orders, and when it is time for him to break the seals this
evening, he will come about, hug the shore of St. Rosa's till he comes
to the entrance of the bay, when he will go in."

"If he does that, so much the better, for we shall have more time to
prepare for a decided stroke," replied Christy. "I have my plan all
ready, though of course it may fail, and to-night we may all be
prisoners of war."

"But don't you believe it will be better to appeal to the flag-officer?"
asked the second lieutenant.

"What good will that do?" demanded Christy. "My cousin has made out his
case before the captain of the Vernon."

"But you had no witnesses then. You have twenty or thirty of them now.
I know you, and so do all the members of the old crew."

"But it appears that you promptly accepted your commander in the person
of my cousin," said Christy, laughing in spite of the gravity of the
situation.

"If I had seen you and Corny together, I should have known which was
which," pleaded Mr. Flint.

"Do you think if I should present myself on deck at this moment, wearing
the frock and shirt of a common seaman, the men would identify me
alongside Corny, who wears the uniform of an officer?"

"I am not so sure of that."

"I don't see how the commodore could go behind the commission which
Corny carries in his pocket, with the orders of the department, any more
than Captain Battleton could. I have thought of this, and I am afraid to
trust myself to the chance," replied Christy very decidedly. "Besides,
I desire to take the conspirators in the very act of running away with
the Bronx; then I can make out a good case."

"But how is this desirable end to be accomplished?" inquired the second
lieutenant, who seemed to be troubled with some doubts.

"Very easily, I think."

"But you must not be rash, captain."

"Will it be the highest prudence to permit the conspirators to take
the Bronx into a Confederate port, Pensacola, or any other?" demanded
Christy with more earnestness than he had yet manifested.

"We may not be able to help ourselves."

"By taking the bull by the horns in good season, I am confident we can
prevent this mischief."

Without discussing this matter any farther, Christy detailed his plan to
Mr. Flint, which was certainly very simple, and the second lieutenant
could raise no objection to it. He was requested to select the men who
were to take part in the enterprise, and all the particulars were
definitely arranged. There was nothing more to be done, and Christy was
left to himself to consider what he had done. The hungry officer helped
himself hastily from the table which was waiting for him in the ward
room, and then hastened on deck.

The transfer of cargo, so far as the Bronx was concerned, was completed.
It appeared that the flag-officer was hurrying the departure of the
steamer on her mission, whatever it was. He had just had a long talk
with Corny, and doubtless there was danger that the object of the cruise
might be defeated by delay. In a short time the Bronx was under way,
headed to the eastward, in accordance with her verbal orders, for the
sealed envelope was not to be opened till nine o'clock in the evening,
as Christy learned from Mr. Flint.

The deck was in charge of the second lieutenant, who was seeing that
everything was put in order. But it might have been observed that he was
more familiar with the men than was his habit. For the first time since
he came on board, Corny went below to take a look at his quarters, Dave
bearing his valise before him. At the same time Mr. Galvinne presented
himself in the ward room to take possession of the stateroom of the
first lieutenant, which was the farthest forward on the starboard side.
It had been Christy's room during his service in the Gulf, though he had
made himself at home in the captain's cabin when he was acting commander
on the voyage from New York.

"This is my cabin, is it?" said Corny, as he followed the steward into
the apartment.

"I think you ought to know it by this time, Captain Passford," answered
Dave; and the remark was enough to condemn the impostor in the opinion
of the servant. "You lived in here when you were in command of the
vessel."

"All right. You may go into the ward room and ask Mr. Galvinne to come
in here," added Corny, who did not feel quite at home in the cabin, and
was in mortal terror of committing some indiscretion in his unaccustomed
position.

"Invite the first lieutenant to the captain's cabin," said Dave. "Yes,
sir;" and the steward left the cabin.

It was some little time before Mr. Galvinne presented himself, for
probably he did not feel bound to obey the orders of the bogus captain
with especial promptness. However, he came after a quarter of an hour,
and seated himself familiarly in an arm-chair at the table. He had the
bearing of the superior officer, to which Corny made no objection.

"We are all right so far," said Corny.

"Perhaps we are; but you talk too much by half, Passford, and I have
been dreading that you would make a slip of some kind," replied Mr.
Galvinne rather crustily. "You were as stupid as a Kentucky mule when
you stopped to talk with Byron in the waist."

"And you were as stupid as an Alabama mule when you snapped at me for
doing so in the presence of some of the sailors," replied Corny, with
considerable spirit; and Christy, who heard all that was said, was glad
to have him maintain the dignity of the family in his new situation.

"I hope you will not make a donkey of yourself before we have finished
this business," added the executive officer for the time being. "Now
have you looked at your orders?"

"I have not; they are sealed orders, and I am not to open them till nine
o'clock this evening," replied Corny.

"I believe you have lost all the wits you ever had, Passford," said Mr.
Galvinne contemptuously.

"If I did, you did not pick them up."

"I am not going to banter with you, Passford. Where are your orders?"
demanded the first lieutenant in a tyrannical manner.

"They are in my pocket," replied Corny sourly.

"Hand them over to me, and let us have no more fooling."

"I will take care of the orders myself."

"What! Are you not going to give them to me?" demanded Mr. Galvinne,
apparently as much in astonishment as in anger.

"Not till you change your tone. I wish you to understand that I am in
command of this ship, and I have my commission in my pocket. I intend to
be treated with decency at least."

"Well, this is pleasant; and it will be my duty to report your conduct
to my superior officer. In command of this ship! Why, you don't know
enough to lay off the course of the ship, or even to box the compass."

"I know enough to understand when I am treated like a gentleman. Change
your manners, or I will order you to leave my cabin. You talk to me as
though I were a small boy, and had nothing to do with the enterprise in
which we are engaged," returned Corny.

"Do you expect me to obey your orders?" demanded the executive officer
in a sneering tone.

"If you don't, I will send for the second lieutenant and a file of men
to put you out of my cabin."

There was a silence for a few moments.

"This will never do, Passford," said the tyrannical officer.

"I don't think it will, Galvinne. Behave like a gentleman, and we shall
have no difficulty," added Corny.

"Will you permit me to see your orders, Mr. Passford?" said the officer.

The breach was closed, and Corny produced the sealed envelope.




CHAPTER XIII

THE OPENING OF THE SECRET ORDERS


Christy listened with interest to the conversation in the captain's
cabin, though so far it had afforded him no information in regard to the
present situation, and it was hardly likely to do so, for he had already
been told by Mr. Flint what the next movement of the Bronx was to be.
She had already been ordered to proceed to the eastward, and her sealed
instructions would reveal the enterprise in which she was to engage.

The steamer had been so successful while in command of Captain Blowitt
in breaking up the shipping of cotton in a port where a larger vessel
could not operate, that Christy promptly concluded that she was to
be used in a similar enterprise. The listener was amused rather than
impressed by the conversation which was in progress so near him, and
especially at the display of dignity and authority on the part of his
cousin.

Mr. Galvinne had proved himself to be a very gentlemanly officer in what
little Christy had seen of him on the voyage from New York; but the
situation was entirely changed so far as he was concerned. It appeared
from the conversation, as the listener had for some time supposed,
that the second lieutenant of the Vernon was the real leader of the
enterprise of which Corny was the nominal head. Probably the restraint
of over a week imposed upon him had fretted his spirit, and when he
found himself alone with his incompetent superior, he became conscious
of the superiority his knowledge and training gave him.

Christy rather sympathized with him in his contempt for the one who was
only nominally his superior, though that could not excuse the breach of
good manners of which he had been guilty, whether in the old or the new
navy. He felt that Mr. Galvinne was a man of ability, and that he was
the only person whom he had to fear in carrying out his plan for the
recovery of the vessel.

"I am not a naval officer, though I have given a good deal of attention
to the study of nautical subjects in connection with this enterprise,
and I am not a cipher," continued Corny, after he had handed the sealed
envelope to his companion. "I expect to be treated with reasonable
consideration, even while I defer to you in all nautical matters. Let
us understand each other."

"I acknowledge that I was altogether too brusque with you, Mr. Passford,
and I beg your pardon for my rudeness," said Mr. Galvinne.

"I am entirely satisfied, Mr. Galvinne; and here is my hand," added
Corny, who doubtless felt that he had fully vindicated himself.

"I have been living on a hot gridiron for the last ten days, and in
the first moments of freedom I overstepped the limits of propriety.
I hope we understand each other now, for we are engaged in an important
enterprise, and we cannot afford to be at variance," replied the naval
officer. "Our work is yet unfinished, though it has progressed admirably
so far. Have I your permission to open this sealed envelope?"

"Certainly, Mr. Galvinne; I had heard so much about sealed orders in the
instructions given me for this undertaking, that I was under the
impression that they were not to be seen till the time marked on the
envelope."

"It is not necessary to obey the orders of the Yankee flag-officer under
present circumstances," answered Mr. Galvinne in a chuckling tone, as it
sounded to the listener.

The naval officer read the orders aloud for the benefit of his
associate. The flag-officer had obtained information that a steamer
was loading with cotton at St. Andrew's Bay, and Captain Passford was
instructed to visit that locality and capture the vessel, and any others
that might be found there.

"Why was it necessary to give secret orders for such an expedition as
this?" asked Corny.

"It was wise on the part of the Yankee commodore to make his orders
secret; for information might have been sent by telegraph or otherwise
to St. Andrew's, which would have enabled our people to get the steamer
mentioned out of the way, or to prepare a successful resistance to the
gunboat sent to capture it," Mr. Galvinne explained in the tone of one
who enlightens an ignorant person.

"I see; that is plain enough," added Corny. "How far is it to St.
Andrew's?"

"If I remember rightly it is eighty-three sea miles from the entrance
to Pensacola Bay. But you do not run away with the idea that it is
necessary for you, as the present commander of the Bronx, to visit this
place?" asked the naval officer.

"Of course we are not bound to obey the orders of the Union
flag-officer," added Corny. "But now you know the situation thoroughly,
Mr. Galvinne, and I suppose you are ready to arrange your plans for the
future."

"There is not much planning to be done; all we have to do is to run into
Pensacola when we are ready to do so," replied the naval officer.

"Do you think it advisable to do so at once?" asked Corny; and his
motive seemed to be simple curiosity, for he was not competent to give
advice on a naval question, though he was in nominal command of the
steamer.

"Certainly not; for as soon as it was seen on board of the flag-ship
that the commander of the Bronx was disobeying his orders, we should be
chased by the two ships on the station and fired upon."

"How shall you manage it?"

"We shall be well out of sight of the flag-ship by dark, or sooner, and
then we can come about, and keeping closely under the lee of the land,
we shall reach the entrance of the bay before morning; and then all we
have to do is to run in."

"But the flag-ship will make out the steamer," suggested Corny.

"We shall be too far in for her to do us any harm, for the water has not
less than four fathoms anywhere along the shore of St. Rosa's Island."

"But she will signal the fort to fire upon us."

"They can't make us out soon enough to do us any harm, or not much,
at any rate," replied Mr. Galvinne confidently.

"I hope it will all come out right, but I have some fears," added the
impostor.

"You need not have. You have played your part remarkably well, Mr.
Passford, and it was an excellent idea on the part of Major Pierson, who
suggested this plan of putting you in the place of your cousin. He had
seen you and your relative together, I believe?"

"He had, for we were both prisoners of war after our unsuccessful
attempt to capture the Bellevite, on the Hudson."

"I have heard about that; and I know that your cousin Christopher is no
chicken."

"He is what the Yankees call smart, and I know he is all that," added
Corny. "What do you suppose has become of him? When Captain Battleton
sent for him in order to let the commodore see us both together, he
could not be found. As you know, all three vessels were very thoroughly
searched without any success."

"There are a great many hiding-places on board of any vessel, and I am
very clear in my own mind as to what became of him. Of course, the
flag-officer, seeing both of you together, would have been as much
perplexed as the captain was, and he would have been compelled to accept
the evidence of the commission and the orders in your possession."

"But Christy would have found plenty of witnesses here: the second
lieutenant and the seamen on board of the Bronx, for example."

"The evidence might have perplexed him; if he had done anything, he
would have been more likely to retain both of you on board of the
flag-ship, and appointed a new officer in command of the Bronx, rather
than go back of the evidence of the commission," argued Mr. Galvinne.

"But Christy has disappeared all the same; and where do you suppose
he is?"

"I have no doubt he is concealed on board of the Vernon, with the
intention of returning to New York, where he has plenty of influential
friends to fight his battle for him. But I must go on deck, or something
may go wrong in my absence."

Christy heard the footsteps of the late second lieutenant of the Vernon
as he left the cabin. He had listened to the details of the plan formed
by the naval officer, and it agreed with the prediction of Mr. Flint.
While he was thinking of what he had just learned, he heard the step of
Corny--for it could not be that of any other person so soon--coming into
the stateroom; then he saw his feet from behind his barricade of bags
and baggage.

He had not expected his cousin to make any full examination of the room
to be occupied by the commander of the gunboat, for his stay on board
would be short, and he could not feel any great interest in the room.
His curiosity might lead him to make a closer examination of the
interior of the apartment than would be agreeable to his cousin. He felt
that he was in danger of being discovered in his hiding-place; but he
instantly made up his mind as to what he would do in the event of such
an accident. He had hoped to be spared from any personal conflict with
his cousin, and he had made his plan so as to avoid any such
disagreeable necessity.

But if Corny carried his investigations too far for his safety, and
especially for the success of his enterprise, he decided that the
ties of blood should not prevent him from doing his whole duty as he
understood it. He was therefore prepared to muzzle the intruder, and
confine his hands behind him with a strap he had taken from his valise.
Happily Corny did nothing more than look under the berth while still
standing in the space in front of it, and in this position he could not
see the fugitive. The impostor wandered about the cabin for a time, and
then Christy heard his footsteps on the stairs as he ascended to the
deck.

He had hardly left the cabin before the steward entered the stateroom,
and reported that he had seen Ralph Pennant, and that he had told him
all he knew about the loyalty and the disloyalty of the new hands in the
crew. Ralph reported that he had "spotted" the four seamen whose names
had been given him before the Vernon reached the station.

"What does he say in regard to me?" asked Christy.

"He said he believed you were bony fido commander of the Bronx, and he
is ready to obey your orders. Mr. Flint had a talk with him while the
first lieutenant was below; he talked to Boxie, and three more of the
men, and he did it mighty sly, too, for the third lieutenant was on the
deck all the time. There's eight bells, Massa Christy, and the second
lieutenant will have the deck."

"I did not think it was so late; but that reminds me that I have eaten
nothing since my breakfast was brought to me early this morning," said
Christy.

"I hope to drink up every drop of water in the Alabama River if I
did not forget all about that! Gollywomps! Dave is getting stupid,"
exclaimed the steward, springing to his feet. "I can't bring you a
regular dinner, Massa Christy, but I will do the best I can."

"Never mind the regular dinner; but bring me something to eat, if it is
only some crackers and cheese," added Christy; and the steward hastened
to his pantry.

He soon returned with a huge slice of ham and some cold biscuits. The
hungry fugitive, who had not left his appetite at home, immediately
attacked the provision as though it had been an enemy of the Union, and
stood by it till he had devoured the whole of it; and it proved to be
just a pattern for his empty stomach, and he declined Dave's offer to
bring him another.

He had hardly finished it before Mr. Flint paid him another visit, and
reported everything ready for the recapture of the steamer.




CHAPTER XIV

THE AFFRAY ON THE QUARTER-DECK OF THE BRONX


Christy was satisfied that all was going well in regard to the capture
of the Bronx, and he went to sleep after he had disposed of his dinner,
and arranged the final details of the enterprise with the second
lieutenant. Mr. Flint was somewhat impatient to carry out his plan; but
Christy insisted that nothing should be done till the orders of the
flag-officer had been actually disobeyed. It was decided that coming
about, and heading the Bronx to the westward would constitute
disobedience.

When Christy awoke it was dark, or at least dusky, as far as he could
judge in his concealment. He heard the rattle of dishes, knives and
forks in the cabin, and he understood that the captain was taking his
dinner. A conversation was in progress, and Christy concluded from the
voices he heard that Corny had invited his first lieutenant to dine with
him.

"I think we shall be in Pensacola Bay by daylight," said Mr. Galvinne;
"and we have just the right kind of weather for our enterprise. It is
cloudy, and it looks as though we might have a fog, for they often come
up after dark when the wind is as it is now."

"What time shall you come about?" asked Corny, apparently from curiosity
rather than any especial interest in the navigation of the steamer.

"About nine o'clock; perhaps sooner. Byron will have the deck from eight
bells for the first watch; I hope and expect Flint will turn in at that
time, for he will have the mid-watch. It might be a little awkward if he
happens to be on deck when we change our course from east to west."

Christy did not believe that the second lieutenant would turn in at the
time indicated, though he might make a pretence of doing so, and shut
himself up in his stateroom. Mr. Galvinne proceeded to say that he
should have Rockton and Warton ready to make Mr. Flint a prisoner in
case he became too inquisitive. Nichols and Sayles would be available
near the quarter-deck in case any demonstration was made by any portion
of the crew.

"But there will be no trouble of any kind," added the first lieutenant.
"We are not carrying sail, and I shall quietly give the word to the
quartermaster to make the course west instead of east. Flint is the only
man on board who is at all likely to question the regularity of the
proceedings on board; and I do not see how he can do it, for he knows
nothing at all about the orders under which we are sailing. In fact,
we shall be on the other tack before the time comes to open the sealed
envelope."

"I hope it will all come out right," added Corny.

"You may depend upon it that we shall be under the guns of Fort
Barrancas, or farther up the bay, before daylight," replied the actual
commander.

"What am I to do, Mr. Galvinne?" asked Corny.

"Nothing at all; you can turn in as soon as you like and sleep through
the whole, for there will be nothing at all to disturb you. As I said,
Flint is the only person on board who is likely to make the least
trouble, and he will be asleep in his berth. If he asks hard questions
when he comes on deck at eight bells for the mid-watch, our men will
secure him. That is the whole of it. I must go on deck now, for I can
smell the fog."

"How are you going to get to the entrance of the bay in a fog?" inquired
Corny.

"If we keep her due west we shall be all right; and I know this coast as
well as I do my father's plantation," replied Mr. Galvinne; and Christy
heard him open the door.

"I think I shall go on deck and see the fun, if there is any, and turn
in if there is none," added Christy.

The dishes rattled for a moment, and then the fugitive heard the step
and the voice of Dave in the stateroom.

"I done bring you something more to eat, Massa Christy," said the
steward, who appeared to have suffered some lapse in his grammar and
pronunciation during the absence at the North of his instructor; and as
he spoke he handed in a piece of pie and a large slice of cake.

Christy was not very hungry after his late dinner, but he ate the
dainties brought to him, and found that the cook of the Bronx had lost
none of his skill. He might not have an opportunity to eat again very
soon, for he did not lose sight of the fact that failure was possible,
and he might soon be an occupant of a Confederate prison with Flint,
as he had been once before.

Dave busied himself in clearing the cabin table, and Christy impatiently
waited the time for the decided action which had been planned. About
half an hour later, when he realized from the condition of the stateroom
that it was quite dark, the sounds coming to him assured him that the
course of the Bronx had been changed as indicated by Mr. Galvinne.
No noise or confusion on deck followed it, and the naval officer's
prediction seemed to be in a fair way to be realized.

Another half hour elapsed, and except the monotonous plaint of the
screw, no sound was to be heard. A footstep came from the cabin, where
Dave was at work, or appeared to be, for he had been stationed there for
his part of the programme which was presently to be carried out.

"Steward, light the lamp in my stateroom," said Corny; and Christy was
glad to find that he intended to retire for the night, for he had no
duties to perform unless there was a disturbance on the quarter-deck.

The lamp on gimbols was lighted, and Corny took possession of the room,
and had not a suspicion that he was not its only occupant. He lay down
in his berth after he had removed his coat and shoes, and in a few
minutes Christy judged that he was asleep from the sound of his
breathing, which soon degenerated into a mild snore. Mr. Flint was to
make a beginning in the project, or, as Dave called it, "open the ball."

In less than another half hour, Christy heard a knock on the cabin door,
which was the signal from the second lieutenant that it was time to
begin operations. He crawled to the front of the space beneath the berth
at the sound, and at the same moment Dave came in at the door of the
stateroom, which had been left open.

The steward lost no time in acting his part, the first step of which was
to jam a handkerchief into the half-open mouth of Corny Passford; but he
had been counselled to use no more force than was necessary to subdue
him. Dave then turned him over on his back in spite of his aimless
struggles, for, as he was roused from his sound slumber, he was too much
bewildered to accomplish anything like an effective resistance. The
strap which Christy had provided for the purpose was used in fastening
his hands behind him, and so far as Corny was concerned, the battle was
fought and the victory won.

Christy had crawled out of his narrow quarters under the berth as soon
as Dave began to operate on the sleeper above him, and he stood ready to
assist the steward if his services were required; but there was hardly
anything like a struggle, for Corny had been so completely surprised
that he was incapable of doing anything in self-defence. With his hands
strapped behind him, and with the gag still in his mouth, he was
permitted to remain in the berth under the guard of Dave.

Not a particle of noise had been made in the stateroom; at least, none
that could be heard on the deck above. Christy hastened from the little
apartment through the cabin to the gangway, where he found Mr. Flint at
the head of the stairs prepared to execute the part of the work assigned
to him, which was to fall upon Mr. Galvinne; but he did not appear to be
in a favorable position for the attack.

"What are you waiting for, Mr. Flint?" asked Christy in a whisper, as he
joined the second lieutenant.

"He has gone into the waist," replied the officer in waiting. "He will
be back in a moment."

Christy had looked into the ward room as he passed the door, for the
captain's cabin was not provided with a separate companion-way, as is
usual on men-of-war, for the space could not be spared in so small a
vessel. All was still there, but two men stood near the door waiting for
the signal to rush to the deck.

"What are those men doing aft, Mr. Byron?" demanded the first
lieutenant, with some excitement in his manner. "They were very
nearly on the quarter-deck, and they seemed to be very reluctant to
go forward."

"I am sure I don't know, Mr. Galvinne; I did not order them there,"
replied the third lieutenant, who was in charge of the deck.

"I suppose they have seen that the course of the ship has been changed,
and I thought they might have come aft to ask some questions, though the
men ought to be better trained than that," added Mr. Galvinne, as he
came quite near the companion-way where the second lieutenant was
waiting for him, with Christy behind him, and ready to support him.

Mr. Flint sprang upon the quarter-deck and threw himself upon Mr.
Galvinne, closely followed by Christy. At the same time, and as soon
as the gangway was clear, the two men who had been stationed in the
ward room leaped upon the deck, and threw themselves upon the third
lieutenant. At the same moment, the six men who had been lurking in the
waist, and who had attracted the attention of the executive officer,
hastened to the scene of the conflict. Rockton, who had been made a
quartermaster, and the helmsman, Warton, went to the assistance of the
first and third lieutenants.

Neither of the two disloyal officers of the Bronx was an infant, and
each struggled like a brave man against the force that attacked them.
Mr. Flint had fallen upon Mr. Galvinne from behind, and had thrown him
down at the first onslaught. He fought like a tiger, but with the aid of
Christy and two of the men from the waist, he was subdued, and Christy
had a strap ready to confine his hands behind him. Then he was drawn
over to the rail and made fast to a belaying pin.

Byron was not less energetic than his superior in his own defence, but
the two stout sailors who had been selected to capture him were more
than doubly a match for him, and he was carefully secured. At the same
time there was a free fight between Rockton and Warton on the one side,
and the sailors who had come aft, but the disloyal tars were conquered
in the end. The prisoners were all bound and made fast to the rail. The
entire watch had come aft while the battle was in progress, and those
who had been instructed in the situation and had taken part in the
recovery of the ship explained to their loyal companions the meaning of
the affair which had just been brought to a conclusion. Involuntarily
they gave three tremendous cheers, and then three more for the genuine
commander.

Not a few of them who had served with Christy in the Gulf declared they
had not believed that the person who was the nominal captain was their
old first lieutenant; they knew that something was wrong, they said,
though they could not tell what. Perhaps they found the captain less
active than formerly, and considered him somewhat changed after his
visit to the north; but doubtless they were as much blinded by the
resemblance as others had been.

"Mr. Flint, I appoint you acting first lieutenant of the Bronx," said
Christy, as soon as the affray was over. "You will restore order on
board."

The new executive officer sent the men forward, called out one of the
old quartermasters to con the wheel, and placed a loyal seaman under
his charge as helmsman. Order was almost instantly restored under
his direction, and the men had enough to talk about to last them the
entire night. Mr. Flint had his doubts in regard to the security of the
prisoners; their bonds of straps and rope were removed, and their places
supplied by iron handcuffs.




CHAPTER XV

A REBELLIOUS AND PREJUDICED PRISONER


"Well, Mr. Flint, we have been more successful than I feared we might
be," said Christy, after the prisoners except Corny had been put in
irons, though they consisted of only five officers and seamen.

"As usual, you are the hero of the adventure," replied the new first
lieutenant, laughing. "But I must say it was the stupidest enterprise in
which rational men ever engaged."

"I decline to be regarded as the hero of the adventure, as you call it;
and it was not so stupid as you suggest," replied Christy, with the
greatest good-nature.

"Perhaps you builded better than you knew; but if you had not escaped
from the Vernon, and managed the whole affair, it would have been a
success," added Mr. Flint.

"Then the scheme cannot be considered so stupid as you represent it."

"But it had not one chance in ten of success. Your cousin looks more
like you than he did the last time I saw him."

"He fixed himself up to pass for me, and that helped his case very
greatly. He put on a uniform like mine, such a one as you have never
seen him wear."

"He did not look quite natural to me; but I could not make out what
made the change in his looks," continued Mr. Flint. "You can see for
yourself, that the plot would have been a success if you had not been on
board of the Bronx to tell me what had happened. Whatever passed between
the flag-officer and Captain Battleton, nothing at all was said among
the officers about the decision the commander of the Vernon had been
obliged to make when he accepted your cousin as the genuine Christopher
Passford, ordered to the command of the Bronx. While I thought you were
somewhat altered in appearance, and that your greeting to me was rather
cold and formal when you came on board, I did not suspect that the
officer who represented you was an impostor."

"Do you think you should have let these conspirators run into Pensacola
Bay without meddling with the matter?" asked Christy.

"I am sure I should, for I could not have helped myself. The captain had
his orders, to be opened about this time; and I should have supposed you
were going into the bay to shell out Fort Barrancas."

"You could hardly have supposed that a little gunboat like the Bronx was
sent all alone on such a mission."

"I obey my orders without question, and I should not have suspected
anything was out of the way. I was rather cut up when I found that
Galvinne had been appointed executive officer; and that, with the cold
greeting you gave me, led me to ask in what manner I had lost your good
opinion."

"Of course Corny asked for his appointment, for Mr. Galvinne was the
real leader of the enterprise. I think you and some of the rest of us
have narrowly escaped a Confederate prison."

"That is plain enough; and we only escaped it because you took it into
your head to leave the Vernon at the time you left her. I think the
Bronx would have gone into Pensacola Bay without the least trouble, for
I have no doubt Galvinne knew just what signals to make to Fort McRae,
and just as well what ones to make to Fort Pickens. The ship would have
been there by midnight, and up to that time I should have been asleep in
my stateroom; and they would not have taken the trouble to call the
watch below at that hour."

"No matter; we have the Bronx again, and she is not yet to become
a Confederate cruiser. But Corny had the sealed orders of the
flag-officer, and I heard Mr. Galvinne read them. The Bronx is ordered
to St. Andrew's to attend to the case of a steamer loading there to run
the blockade. Shall I obey the orders, or return to the flag-ship?"

"The commodore hurried us off, for he feared any delay might allow the
steamer to escape."

"We have five prisoners on board; and we can take care of them well
enough," replied Christy; "but the principal difficulty is that we have
no officers."

"But we have plenty of good men, and some of them will make good
officers," suggested the first lieutenant.

"We have no surgeon, I believe, for Dr. Spokeley is sick, and was to be
sent home before I left in the Vixen for New York," added the commander,
now restored to his own right on board.

"Oh, yes; we have a surgeon, for Dr. Spokeley is to go to New York in
the Vernon, and the doctor of the store-ship is appointed to the Bronx."

"Dr. Connelly!" exclaimed Christy.

"Just so; and I dare say he is asleep in his stateroom at this moment."

"Then we had better obey the sealed orders of the flag-officer; we will
come about, and head her for St. Andrew's. Fortunately I have been there
myself in the Bellevite, and I have been up the harbor and bay in boats,
for the yacht, as she was at the time, drew too much water to go into
the bay, for it is shoal inside. Come about, Mr. Flint, and make the
course due east."

"I hope we shall do as well as we did at Cedar Keys," replied the first
lieutenant, when he had given the order to come about to the
quartermaster.

"Look up the log slate, for I suppose they have made the entries, and
when we have run eighty knots from the station, keep a sharp lookout for
the land. Now I will go to my cabin, and find the envelope that contains
the orders, and look them over."

Christy went below, and found Dave in the stateroom, apparently
unwilling to take his eyes off the prisoner who still lay in the berth.
He went to the table in the cabin, and found upon it the sheet upon
which the orders had been written. They were of no use to Galvinne, and
he had thrown them down as soon as he had read them. He sat down at the
table and read the paper; but the order was very simple, and left all
the details to the discretion of the commander, for it was understood
that Captain Passford was well acquainted with the coast as far as St.
Mark's.

Christy was still clothed in the frock and cap of a common sailor, and
he realized that it was time for him to put on his uniform. He went to
the quarters of the men where he had concealed his valise, and carried
it back to the cabin, where he proceeded to make the change. In a short
time he had put himself in proper condition to take his place on the
quarter-deck in command when his presence was required. He had nothing
to do at present, and he concluded to write his report of the remarkable
proceedings on board since the Bronx left the station. He wanted his
desk, and he went to the stateroom.

"Well, Dave, how is your prisoner?" he asked, halting at the door.

"I got him safe, Massa Cap'n," replied the steward, exhibiting most of
the teeth in his mouth, for he was pleased with himself after he had
executed the commission assigned to him, and did not feel as much like a
contraband as he might.

"I am in command, Dave, and there must be no more 'massa' now," added
Christy.

"I done forget all about my talk, Captain Passford," replied Dave.

"That is bad grammar," said the commander, laughing, for he was in an
exceedingly pleasant humor, as may well be supposed. "You know what is
right, and you must not talk like a contraband."

"I won't do so any more, Captain Passford," protested the steward,
showing his ivory, though he was not a very black man, and the contrast
was not as great as in many instances.

"How do you find yourself, Corny?" asked the captain, turning to the
berth.

"I am all right, Corny; but I should like to have you or some one tell
me what has been going on in this steamer, for this black rascal will
not say a word to me," replied the prisoner.

"I don't blame him, if you call him a black rascal," added Christy. "But
you need not call me by your own name any longer, cousin, for it will
not help your case any more. Your game is played out, and you have been
beaten with your own weapons. When you want to play another Yankee
trick, you had better remember that you are not a Yankee, and you are
not skilled in the art of doing it."

"What do you mean by that, Corny?" asked the prisoner, disregarding the
advice of his cousin.

"Corny again!" exclaimed the captain.

"I am the commander of this steamer, and I have been assaulted in my
berth!" replied the sufferer, warming up a little.

"Whew! Then you are still the commander of the Bronx?" repeated Christy,
laughing at his cousin's persistence.

"You know that I am. Wasn't the commission decided to be mine?"

"But we have concluded to reverse the decision of the commander of the
Vernon, and submit the case to the flag-officer for final adjustment. In
the mean time, I have taken possession of the steamer, and put all your
confederates in irons. For the present, at least, I am in command of the
Bronx, and I want my stateroom. With Dave's assistance, I must ask you
to turn out of that berth."

"I decline to give up my stateroom, or my command of the steamer,"
replied Corny in a sulky manner. "I should like to know how you happen
to be on board of the Bronx, Corny."

"Did you believe that I intended to let you take possession of this
steamer, and run her into a Confederate port, Corny? My name is Passford
as well as yours, and I am not a traitor, and don't believe I am a
coward. At a time which suited my convenience, I left the Vernon and
came on board of the Bronx."

"Where did you hide, for the vessel has been searched in every part of
her for you?"

"I have been under the berth in this stateroom, a hiding-place which was
suggested to me by one of your people who used it as such, and was
caught, as I was not."

"No one thought you would hide in the captain's cabin."

"That is the very reason why I chose this place. I have had the pleasure
of listening to all your conversations with Mr. Galvinne, and I knew
your plans from beginning to end."

"You have been under this berth since the steamer left the flag-ship!"
exclaimed Corny, apparently amazed at the fact.

"I have; but I have no more time to enlighten you. I can only say that
with the assistance of the only loyal officer left on board, and the
loyal seamen, I have recaptured the vessel, and now we are on our way to
St. Andrew's to obey the orders which the flag-officer delivered to you
when you were a rebel in disguise. Now Dave will help you out of the
berth."

"No, he won't! If I was to be captured at all, Corny, you insulted me
when you set a nigger to do the job," said the prisoner angrily.

"You are playing a farce now, cousin; but I cannot stay to fool with
you. Take him out of the berth, Dave."

"Will you set a nigger upon me again, Christy?" using the commander's
proper name for the first time.

"If you will get out of the berth yourself, I will allow you to do so,"
added Christy.

"I will," replied the prisoner.

He made the attempt to do so, but he would have fallen to the floor,
with his hands fastened behind him, if Christy and Dave had not received
him in their arms. The steward hugged him like a brother, perhaps
maliciously, and carried him to a divan in the cabin. Corny had
apparently abandoned his cause, and his cousin gave him a berth in
the ward room for the rest of the night.




CHAPTER XVI

THE DISPOSAL OF THE PRISONERS


Before Christy could begin his report he was called to the deck by the
first lieutenant, though everything had appeared to be quiet and orderly
there. Ralph Pennant had been at work among the crew, and was unable to
discover that any of the men were disloyal; but the commander had
better information obtained by his own investigations. Ralph was in
consultation with Mr. Flint when Christy went on deck.

"I think the men are all right, and, so far as I can ascertain, not a
man is a rebel," said Ralph in answer to a question of the executive
officer.

"You have the names of the four men that I sent to you by the steward,
have you not?" asked Christy.

"I have, captain; Rockton and Warton took part with Mr. Galvinne, but
Sayles and Nichols did nothing, and they seem to be as in earnest on the
right side as the other two were on the wrong side," replied Ralph.

"I should not be willing to trust them. I know they were the intimate
associates of Rockton and Warton, for they were in council together on
board of the Vernon. In carrying out our orders, we may have a fight
either with a battery or with some vessel, and we must not have any
black sheep in the crew,--one who might speak a word or make a sign that
would ruin all our calculations," added Christy.

"Of course I can't say that Sayles and Nichols are not rebels; but they
have done nothing that is suspicious, and one of our men has pumped them
both," answered Ralph.

"Have them closely watched, or they may play us some trick when we least
suspect it, and in some critical moment," said the commander.

"But I wished to see you in regard to the prisoners," interposed Mr.
Flint. "We have four of them here made fast to the rail, and Galvinne
complains of his treatment; he says he is cold."

"I should think he might be, for the night air is very chilly," replied
Christy. "I should have preferred to get rid of these men before we went
into any enterprise, for they are dangerous persons to us."

"With their arms locked together behind them, they are not in condition
to do any harm," added Mr. Flint.

"I will go below and see what can be done with them. I desire to make
them as comfortable as possible, though I do not believe they will be
satisfied with any location to which I may assign them."

"I think you need not be too particular about them; they have made their
own nest, and now they must live in it," said the first lieutenant.

"You may come with me, Ralph," added Christy, as he descended the
companion-way.

The commander found Dave keeping close watch over Corny Passford, though
he was fast asleep in his berth. Passing through the ward room and
steerage, Dave unlocked the door that led into the quarters of the crew.
Next to the bulkhead, or partition, was space enough for the prisoners,
and the steward was required to bring five berth sacks, which were
placed on the deck.

"The only objection I have to this as prison quarters is that Sayles and
Nichols will be too near them; but I shall keep a sentry over them all
the time," said Christy.

"I should think they would be safe with a guard," added Ralph.

"Now, Dave, you will wake your prisoner, and I will relieve you of all
responsibility in regard to him. He is dressed, is he not?" continued
the commander when they reached the ward room.

"He is, Captain Passford, for he did not undress when he turned in last
night," replied the steward.

"What is the matter now?" asked the prisoner in the ward room, after he
had rubbed his eyes for a time.

"Nothing is the matter now on our side of the house, but I must put you
with the other prisoners," replied Christy. "You may unbuckle the strap,
Dave, so that he can get out of the berth."

"Who are the other prisoners?" demanded Corny, as though he had a right
to know.

"They are your confederates in the plot, Corny. Who do you suppose they
are? Jeff Davis is not one of them. The most important one, not even
excepting yourself, cousin, is Mr. Galvinne, late first lieutenant of
the Bronx."

"Is he a prisoner?" asked Corny, as he got out of the berth.

"Of course he is. Do you think I should let him lie around loose on
deck? The next one is the man-servant at Bonnydale by your appointment,
formerly Walsh, but now Byron. He is a very good actor, but he has
played out his _rle_."

"He was by profession an actor in Mobile," added Corny.

"I should think he might have been. By the way, Corny, where is my
commission that you and he stole from my pocket at Bonnydale?"

"That is my commission," replied Corny, putting his hand involuntarily
on his left breast, where he had carried his papers on board of the
Vernon.

"You stole it, cousin, and you must give it back to me," added Christy,
very decidedly.

"I shall not," replied Corny, with quite as much firmness.

"Take it from him," said the commander.

The hands of the impostor were now free, and he placed himself in a
defensive attitude; but Ralph Pennant, who was rather above the average
stature, threw his arms around him, and he was pinned as tightly as
though he had been put into a strait jacket. Corny was probably stiff in
his arms from their confinement, and he was unable to make a very
spirited defence. While the seaman held him, Christy took the envelope
from his breast pocket, and transferred it to his own. But there was
considerable noise made in the brief scuffle, which waked some of the
sleepers. From one of the staterooms an officer rushed out, and demanded
the cause of the disturbance. The person proved to be the surgeon.

"We are putting things to rights on board," replied Christy, who had not
seen the doctor before, for he had retired early to his room.

"I don't quite understand this matter," said the surgeon. "What are you
doing, Mr. Passford?"

"Captain Passford, if you please, Dr. Connelly, for I have the honor to
be in command of the Bronx at the present moment. This is Mr. Passford,"
added Christy, pointing to his cousin.

"Then you have reversed the decision of Captain Battleton?"

"For sufficient reasons, I have; with the assistance of the loyal
members of the ship's company, I have taken possession of the
vessel, and we are now on our way to carry out the orders of the
flag-officer.--Conduct the prisoner to his future quarters," said
Christy, in a very business-like manner.

During this conversation, Ralph, still holding his prisoner, had sent
the steward on deck for a pair of handcuffs, which the seaman proceeded
to apply to the wrists of Corny.

"What are you about?" demanded the prisoner, attempting to shake off his
captor when he felt the cold iron.

"Just giving you a pair of bracelets," replied Ralph, as he grappled
again with his victim, and asked Christy to adjust the handcuffs. "Just
for ornament, you know."

In the grasp of such a powerful man as Ralph Pennant, Corny was
powerless, and he was compelled to submit, though his opposition
appeared to be merely a matter of form with him, for he could not help
realizing that it was utterly useless; but he had not been in the affray
on deck, and he had not learned the full lesson from experience. The
irons were locked upon his wrists, and the seaman was directed to
conduct him to the place assigned to all the prisoners.

"This is mean of you, Christy, to put me in irons," said Corny
reproachfully as he turned to his cousin; "I might have asked Captain
Battleton to put you in irons on board of the Vernon; but I did not."

"If he had done so, I should not have complained. I have been a prisoner
of war, and I had to take my chances. We may be in action for aught I
know in a few hours, and I do not mean to have half a dozen rebels at my
heels to trip me up if I can help it. The circumstances are entirely
different from those on board of the Vernon."

"I don't think so," muttered Corny. "You treat your own flesh and blood
as though blood was nothing but water with you."

"I stand by the Union, and those on the other side must keep out from
under. When I was in a Confederate prison, my uncle Homer, your father,
did not do a single thing for me. Lead on, Ralph."

Dr. Connelly was so much astonished at the proceedings that he did not
turn in, but completed his toilet, and came out into the ward room
again. He looked troubled, for he had heard nothing of the struggle on
the quarter-deck, and the situation was a revelation to him. He looked
and talked as though he thought that Christy and his associates who had
captured the vessel were simply mutineers. The captain sent the steward
for Boxie, and, giving him a pair of pistols and a cutlass, informed
him that he was to stand guard over the five prisoners until he was
relieved. The old man, who had been one of the seamen on board of
the Bellevite when she was a yacht, took his place forward of the
berth-sacks, and began his march athwartship.

"You know me, don't you, Boxie?" said Corny as he recognized the old
salt, who was the sheet-anchorsman of the crew, and who was generally
their spokesman.

"You will hold no conversation with the prisoner, Boxie; but you may
let them talk among themselves, and note what they say if it is of any
importance. You will be relieved with the first watch."

Ralph Pennant and three seamen conducted the other prisoners to their
quarters. They were supplied with blankets, in which those from the deck
wrapped themselves up. Corny and Galvin began to compare notes at once;
but Boxie kept his ears open as he marched up and down within two feet
of his charge.

"I hope you have not committed any rash act, Mr. Passford," said Dr.
Connelly as the party passed through the ward room.

"I do not stand on mere forms, Dr. Connelly; but if you continue to call
me simply 'mister,' I shall understand from it that you do not recognize
me as the rightful commander of the Bronx," replied Christy, as he
invited the surgeon with a gesture to enter the captain's cabin.

"I beg your pardon, Captain Passford; I used the title of 'mister' from
habit, and not as meaning anything," replied the surgeon. "I was forced
by the evidence, and quite as much by the lack of evidence, to concur
with Captain Battleton in his decision."

"I find no fault with you on that account, doctor," added Christy.

"You made no protest to the flag-officer, but suddenly disappeared.
When I went to my stateroom in the evening, your cousin was in command,
and had sailed to execute the orders given him. You can judge of my
astonishment when I learned just now that the captain and his officers
were prisoners," the surgeon explained.

"I do not propose to submit to another investigation by you, or any one
but the flag-officer; but for your information I am willing to give you
the facts," said Christy with dignity, of which he had a full supply
whenever it was needed. "As long as the officers in charge of the
Bronx continued to obey the orders of the commodore to proceed to
the eastward, I did nothing; but when they headed the steamer to the
westward, which they did as soon as it was dark, I understood very well
that they were disobeying their orders, and intended to run the Bronx
into Pensacola Bay, and deliver her to the Confederate authorities. Then
I carried out my plan and captured the vessel."

The surgeon was satisfied with this evidence.




CHAPTER XVII

THE SECOND AND THIRD LIEUTENANTS


The surgeon went on deck with Christy, where he was presented in due
form to Mr. Flint, though he had been introduced to him before in his
former position as second lieutenant. The commander went forward to the
bridge and pilot-house, and consulting the log slate, found that the
last entry gave seventy-eight knots from the station. But it was foggy,
as Mr. Galvinne had predicted that it would be, and the quartermaster
conning the wheel said it was as "dark as a stack of black cats."
Nothing could be seen in any direction, and the commander decided that
it was not prudent to proceed any farther.

The leadsman was ordered to sound, as the screw was stopped, and he
reported sixteen fathoms with the deep-sea lead. Christy ordered the
quartermaster to go ahead again, and keep the hand-line going all the
time. Mr. Flint came forward, and took his place on the bridge, where
the officer of the deck was usually stationed on board of the Bronx.

The reports of the leadsman were satisfactory, and the steamer went
ahead for an hour. Then they began to give a diminution of the depth of
water, indicating, as Christy stated it, that the vessel was approaching
the land. He looked over the log slate, and found that the course had
been due east till the order had been given to head her in the opposite
direction. She had sailed rather more than an hour on that tack, during
which the recapture of the steamer had been made.

"Mark under water twelve!" shouted the man with the hand lead.

"We are coming up with the shore," said Mr. Flint, as Christy joined him
on the bridge.

"Yes; but you will get four or five fathoms almost up to the beaches.
When I was here, the Bellevite was anchored outside, and we went gunning
and fishing in St. Andrew's Bay. The bay is about thirty miles long; but
it is as crooked as a ram's horn, and there is no town on it, though
there are some scattered houses," added Christy. "We shot fat ducks, and
caught plenty of red snappers and pompana there."

"And a half ten!" shouted the leadsman, as though he meant to have his
figures understood, as they indicated the shoaling of the depth.

But Christy gave no order to reduce the speed of the vessel, and seemed
to feel so thoroughly at home that Mr. Flint began to be a little
nervous. The young commander had carefully studied the chart of the
coast with the practical knowledge he had of the locality.

"Can you form any idea where we are, Captain Passford?" asked the
lieutenant.

"I figured up the course a while ago, and I think we are off St.
Andrew's Bay. If they had not put her about and run for an hour or more
to the westward, I should be satisfied in regard to my position; as it
is, I am not quite clear in regard to it," replied the commander.

"Quarter less ten!" shouted the leadsman, with even more vigor than
before.

"That will do; stop her and anchor, Mr. Flint," said Christy, as he
looked about him in an endeavor to penetrate the fog in which the vessel
was buried.

Then he listened for any sounds that might come to him from the
direction of the shore; but all was as still as the tomb itself. The
screw stopped in obedience to the order of the executive officer, who
went down to the deck to supervise the anchoring of the steamer, as he
had no inferior officer to attend to this duty.

"Mr. Flint, drop a drift lead, and station a hand to observe it," said
Christy, hailing the first lieutenant.

"A drift lead, sir," replied Mr. Flint.

This was a lead weighing twenty pounds, which is dropped on the bottom
by men-of-war to determine if the anchor holds, or if the vessel is
drifting.

"Station a strong lookout, Mr. Flint, and send a man aloft on the
foremast and another on the mainmast," continued Christy when the other
orders had been obeyed.

This completed the preparation for the night. The captain consulted his
repeater, and ascertained that it was twenty minutes past twelve. The
Bronx was in position to learn the fact if any vessel attempted to run
out of St. Andrew's Bay, provided his calculations in regard to the
locality of the Bronx were correct. Christy went down to the deck, and
walked aft with Mr. Flint.

"I think some of us need a little sleep to-night," said the commander.

"Then you had better turn in, Captain Passford," said the executive
officer. "We can do nothing more to-night except to keep a sharp
lookout."

"You are the only officer on board except myself," replied Christy. "We
are still in the dark as to what we have to do here. We may have to send
off a boat expedition, as we did at Cedar Keys, and we are in absolute
need of more officers."

"We have plenty of material out of which to make them, and we can do
as we did after the fight with the Scotian and the Arran, when we made
them," replied Mr. Flint. "We have men of good education in the crew,
who have either commanded coasters, or been mates on steamers."

"If you will name one, I will name another," added Christy.

"Quartermaster Camden. He commanded a three-masted schooner in the coal
trade. He is not college educated, but he is a remarkably well-informed
man who shipped in the navy to learn the details of duty on board of a
man-of-war."

"I appoint him acting second lieutenant," added Christy.

"I am sure he will get a commission as soon as he applies for it,
captain," added the first lieutenant, pleased with the prompt decision.
"Now, who is your man?"

"Ralph Pennant. I had my eye on him while I was aboard of the Vernon,
where he became a sort of oracle among the seamen on account of his
abundant information on general subjects. He talks like a man with a
good education, and he has been mate of a steamer of good size. But I
know very little concerning him, and am afraid he has one out."

"What is that, captain?"

"I am afraid he is fond of whiskey, though I do not know that he is."

"He can't get any whiskey here unless it is served out to him; so that
habit, if it is his habit, will do him no harm," argued Mr. Flint.

"I appoint him third lieutenant temporarily."

"That will amount to their being made ensigns when you go north again if
they prove to be worthy of promotion," added the executive officer, with
a chuckle. "That was what happened to Baskirk and Amden."

"If they are worthy, I shall certainly do the best I can for them,"
added Christy, gaping.

Camden was called aft and formally appointed second lieutenant, but
Ralph was in the watch below, and was in his hammock. The commander
retired to his stateroom, and, letting his report wait till another day,
he was soon sound asleep.

In accordance with the directions he had left with the first lieutenant,
Christy was called with the watch at four o'clock in the morning. Though
the first lieutenant is not a watch officer, he may be required to do
duty as such when the number of commissioned officers is reduced below
three, and Mr. Flint had remained in charge of the mid-watch, which had
been called to the deck at midnight. The captain relieved him and
Camden, and both of them went below, the new appointee taking the
stateroom of the second lieutenant.

"Pass the word for Ralph Pennant," said Christy, as soon as he reached
the quarter-deck.

"I have had considerable talk with Camden, and I am satisfied that he
will make a capital officer," said the executive officer, as he moved
towards the companion-way. "I suppose you have sent for Pennant with the
intention of appointing him third lieutenant."

"That is my purpose; and here he comes."

"On deck, sir," reported Ralph, touching his cap to the commander,
as Mr. Flint descended the steps to the ward room.

"I think you told me that you had had some experience on board of
steamers, Pennant," replied Christy.

"I told you that I had been the mate of a steamer," answered the seaman.

"What is your age?"

"Twenty-eight years."

"Then you are older than you appear to be," continued Christy; and he
proceeded to question the seaman in regard to his education and
experience as a seaman.

He had not been mistaken in his estimate of the man, so far as he could
judge from his answers. Pennant had taken a steamer home to New York
from Havana after the captain had died there of yellow fever. He had
expected to be given the command of the vessel; and when he failed to
obtain the position he resigned his place as mate, but secured the same
position in another and larger steamer.

"Do you ever drink whiskey, Pennant?" asked Christy abruptly.

"At present, no, sir," replied the seaman decidedly. "I learned a few
months ago that I failed to obtain the command of the steamer I brought
home from Havana because it was said I took too much whiskey. I knocked
off then, and have not drank a drop since."

"That was a sensible thing to do. You are aware that we are short of
officers, I suppose," said the commander.

"Yes, sir; and since I came on deck, I heard that Phil Camden had been
appointed acting second lieutenant," replied Pennant.

"That is true; and now I am going to appoint you acting third
lieutenant. You will call the watch aft."

"I am very much obliged to you, Captain Passford, for this favor; and I
know you would not give me the place if you did not think me worthy of
it," replied the seaman as he went forward and called the watch to the
mainmast.

"My men, I have just appointed Ralph Pennant acting third lieutenant;
and you will obey and respect him as such," said Christy, addressing the
watch, and then dismissing them.

The men gave three hearty cheers as they were dismissed, proving to
the commander that Pennant was a popular man among them, as Camden had
also been proved to be when his appointment had been announced to the
starboard watch. As in politics, legislation, war, and business, the
masses of the people soon ascertain who are their natural leaders, the
crew of the Bronx, or that portion who had come from New York in the
Vernon, had been prompt in discovering the abilities of the two men now
promoted.

"Now, Mr. Pennant, you may remove your bag to the ward room, and the
third stateroom on the starboard side, counting from the forward one,
is yours for the present," continued Christy.

"But I have no uniform, Captain Passford," suggested the appointee.

"I have one in my stateroom; but it is altogether too small for you,"
replied the commander, glancing in the gloom of the night at the
stalwart form of the third lieutenant, lacking not more than an inch of
six feet, and his weight could not have been less than one hundred and
eighty. "We will see what can be done in the morning."

"The crew all know me, and I dare say I can get along without a uniform
till we get back to the station, where I could get one from the
store-ship; but it is not likely that I shall need one then."

"I cannot say as to that. When you go forward take a look at the
prisoners, and report to me," added Christy, as Mr. Pennant went below.

In a few minutes he reported that the prisoners were all fast asleep.
Boxie had been relieved as guard, and another seaman was marching back
and forth by their couches. It was still dark and foggy, and a hail came
from the mast-head forward.




CHAPTER XVIII

A BATTLE ON A SMALL SCALE


"On deck!" shouted the lookout at the foremast head. "Light on the
starboard bow!"

"Silence, all!" cried the commander, as soon as he heard the hail from
aloft. "Go forward, Mr. Pennant, silence the hands, and direct the
lookout to hail in lower tones."

The third lieutenant sprang forward to obey the order, and Christy
followed him at a more moderate pace, consistent with his dignity as
the officer highest in rank on board. It was not so much a question
of dignity, however, with him as it was the intention to preserve his
self-possession. A light had been reported on the starboard bow; but
Christy had no more means of knowing what it meant than any other person
on deck. It suggested a blockade runner, a battery, or a house near the
shore where he did not expect to find one.

The captain went on the bridge; but he could not see the light. He
descended to the deck, and then mounted the fore-rigging. The lookout
saw him, and said he could not see the light any longer; it had been in
sight a couple of minutes, and then had disappeared. It was useless to
look for it if gone, and Christy returned to the bridge, where Mr.
Pennant was attentively studying the compass.

"In what direction is the head of the steamer pointed, Mr. Pennant?"
he asked as he joined the lieutenant.

"Exactly north-east, sir," replied Mr. Pennant.

"Then the report of the light on the starboard bow places it directly to
the eastward of us," added Christy. "That is about where the entrance to
St. Andrew's Bay ought to be, if my calculations were correct. We have
been running to the eastward since we left the blockaders' station off
Pensacola Bay. My ruler on the chart gave me that course, and Mr.
Galvinne followed it while he was in charge. We could not have got more
than half a mile off the course in coming about twice. The shoaling of
the water also indicates that we are all right."

The body of the fog evidently lay near the water, and the lookout had
probably seen the light over the top of the bank, as it could not be
made out on the bridge. Christy expressed his belief that the sun would
burn the fog off soon after it rose. No variation of the drift lead had
been reported, and the Bronx was not even swinging at her anchor. For an
hour longer entire silence was preserved on the deck, and the lookout
made no further report.

"There is some sort of commotion among the men on the top-gallant
forecastle," said Mr. Pennant, while Christy was still studying the
situation, and one of the men was seen in the act of hurrying aft.

"I heard men's voices off to the eastward," said this man, when he had
mounted the bridge, and touched his hat to the officers there; and he
spoke in a whisper, in conformity with the orders given.

"Could you hear any slapping of a paddle wheel, or other noises that
sound like a steamer?" asked Christy in the same low tone.

"No, sir; nothing but the voices; but I think the speakers must be in
a vessel of some sort, for the sound since I first heard it, and could
hardly make it out, comes from farther south," replied the man.

"Take a force of twelve men, with pistols and cutlasses, Mr. Pennant, in
the first cutter, and pull down to the south-east. Whatever you find in
the shape of a vessel or a boat, capture it, and return to the Bronx.
Get off with as little noise as possible, and muffle your oars."

Silently Mr. Pennant selected his crew for the boat, saw them armed, and
had the cutter lowered into the water. In a very short space of time the
boat was off. The commander did not believe that anything very serious
would result from this boat expedition, for he was confident there was
no vessel of any size near the Bronx. The men in the cutter pulled very
quietly, and hardly splashed the water with their oars, for they had all
been trained by Christy himself to pull without noise when he was
executive officer.

This was the first responsible position Mr. Pennant had been called
upon to fill, and he knew that his future depended in a large measure
upon the skill and fidelity with which he obeyed his orders. His crew
believed in him, and they were very painstaking in their efforts to work
in silence. He had stationed quartermaster Vincent in the bow of the
boat as the lookout, and he was industriously peering out into the gloom
of the fog and darkness to discover a vessel or a boat. He had heard the
sounds himself, and he knew there was something there. When the boat had
pulled about fifteen minutes, Vincent raised his hand up into the air;
this was a signal which the third lieutenant understood, for he had
arranged several of them with the quartermaster.

"Stand by to lay on your oars," said Mr. Pennant in the lowest tones
that could be heard by the crew. "Oars!"

At the last order the men levelled their oars, feathering the blades,
and remained like eight statues in their seats. Vincent listened with
all his ears in the dead silence which prevailed.

"I hear the voices again," he reported to the lieutenant in the stern
sheets, in a voice just loud enough to reach him; "they are more to the
southward."

"Stand by!" added Mr. Pennant, who had been duly trained in boat service
at an oar. "Give way together! No noise!"

The boat went ahead again, though only at a moderate speed consistent
with the least possible noise. The quartermaster in the bow continued to
gaze into the fog bank, though by this time there was a little lighting
up in the east, indicating that the day was breaking. For half an hour
longer the cutter continued on its course. Occasionally Vincent had
raised his hand over his head, and then dropped it to his left,
indicating to the officer in command that the sounds came from farther
to the southward, and the cockswain was directed to change the course.

In another half hour the noises could be distinctly heard by the third
lieutenant, and he directed the course of the cutter without the need of
any more signals from the bow. His first move was to make a more decided
course to the southward. Then he hastened the crew in their work.

"Sail, ho!" called Vincent, who had not abated his vigilance on the
lookout; and he pointed with his right hand in the direction he had seen
the craft.

Mr. Pennant concluded that the sail could not be far off, or it could
not be seen, and it would be useless to maintain the dead silence, which
was painful to all in the boat. He stood up in his place, and, after
looking for a couple of minutes, he made out the sail himself. So far as
he could judge from what he saw, the craft was a small sloop of not more
than thirty-five feet in length.

"Give way now, lively!" said the third lieutenant, in his ordinary
tones. "I make her out, and she is a small sloop. We shall not have much
of a brush."

Under the vigorous pulling of eight stalwart men, the cutter leaped
forward at a speed that would have won an ordinary boat race, and in ten
minutes more, the sloop could be distinctly made out, the cutter running
across her bow. She was close-hauled, with the wind from the south-west,
and very little of it. On board of her were at least ten men, as the
quartermaster counted them, and there might have been more in her cuddy
under the hail-deck forward.

"Boat, ahoy!" shouted a man on the forecastle of the sloop.

"On board the sloop!" replied Mr. Pennant, standing up in the stern
sheets. "What sloop is that?"

"The Magnolia, bound to Appalachicola," replied the spokesman of the
craft. "What boat is that?"

"The first cutter of the United States steamer Bronx! Heave to, and give
an account of yourselves," hailed the officer in command. "Stand by to
lay on your oars!" he added in a lower tone to his crew. "Oars!"

But the boat seemed to be running too far away from the sloop, though it
was near enough for the lieutenant and quartermaster to see that there
was a decided commotion on board of her.

"Hold water!" added the lieutenant. "Stern all!"

The momentum of the cutter was checked, and the boat placed in a
convenient position for a further conference with the sloop. Either by
intention or carelessness the skipper of the sail-boat had permitted her
to broach to, probably because he was giving too much attention to the
boat and too little to the sloop. When the cutter lost its headway, it
was not more than fifty feet from the sloop.

"Hold the sloop as she is, and I will board you," said Mr. Pennant,
as he saw the skipper filling away again.

"Keep off, or we will fire into you!" shouted the man on the forecastle,
who appeared to be the principal man of the party.

"See that your pistols and cutlasses are ready for use," said the third
lieutenant, in a tone loud enough to be heard by the crew only.

"We are all private citizens," added the sloop's spokesman.

"No matter what you are; I propose to overhaul you and judge for myself
what you are," answered the officer in command of the cutter. "Let go
your sheet, skipper!"

Instead of obeying the order, the boatman hauled in his sheet, and the
sloop began to fill away. Mr. Pennant could form no idea of what the
party were. It was possible that they were private citizens, and
non-combatants; if they were, they had only to prove they were such by
submitting to a further inquiry.

"Stand by, my men! Give way together, lively!" shouted the lieutenant as
though he intended that those on board of the sloop should hear him as
well as his own crew.

The cutter darted ahead; but she had not advanced half the distance
before the men on board of the sloop fired a volley with muskets at the
approaching boat. Mr. Pennant dropped his left arm very suddenly, and
the stroke oarsman went down into the bottom of the boat.

"Come aft, Kingston!" called the third lieutenant to the nearest man in
the bow, and the one indicated crawled aft with all the haste he could
make. "Take Hilton's oar!" added Mr. Pennant, as with his right arm he
drew the wounded man back into the stern sheets.

The progress of the boat was hardly interrupted by the volley, and in
less than a minute after the discharge of the muskets, her stem struck
the bow of the sloop, though not till the lieutenant had checked her
headway, and ordered the men to stand by to board the rebellious craft.
The quartermaster made fast to the sloop, and then grasped his cutlass.

"Lay her aboard!" shouted Mr. Pennant; and Vincent led the way, leaping
directly into the midst of the eight men in the standing room.

"Do you surrender?" asked the lieutenant of the principal man on the
forecastle as he came alongside of him.

"I don't see that we can help ourselves," replied the spokesman in
a surly tone; for the prospect before him was not very pleasant,
especially as a volley had been fired from the sloop, presumably by his
order, for he was the one who had made the threat in the first place.

"Don't strike, my men; they have surrendered," continued Mr. Pennant
with a gesture to his men.

"This is an outrage," said the man on the forecastle, who could not help
seeing that the whole party were in a fair way to be annihilated if they
made any further resistance.

"I dare say it is, my friend," replied Mr. Pennant blandly, for he had
been in the navy long enough to adopt the characteristic politeness
which distinguishes its officers. "Take possession of all the muskets
and other weapons you can find, Vincent, and put them in the cutter."

This order was promptly obeyed. Before it was fully carried out an
elderly gentleman crawled out of the cuddy, and stood up in the standing
room; he was a man of dignity, and evidently of importance.




CHAPTER XIX

THE SKIPPER OF THE SLOOP MAGNOLIA


"You were very unwise to order these men to fire upon the boat," said
the dignified gentleman, addressing the man on the forecastle of the
Magnolia; "it was a great mistake, Captain Flanger."

"That's so!" exclaimed Mr. Pennant, feeling of his left arm as he spoke;
for he had been wounded there, though the injury had not for a moment
abated his energy.

"I did not mean to allow the sloop to be captured by a boat load of men
like that," replied Captain Flanger; "and if our men had used their
bayonets we should have been all right. I told them to fix their
bayonets, but they paid no attention to me."

"It was a great mistake," repeated the dignified gentleman, shaking his
head.

Mr. Pennant had time now to look over the craft he had captured, and the
men on board of her. It was simply a large sailboat, and those on board
of her wore plain clothes. They did not appear to be soldiers or
sailors, though there was a number of bayonets scattered about the
standing room. The seamen from the cutter had leaped on board of the
sloop, with cutlasses in their belts; but there was not space enough to
permit the use of the weapon, and they had seized each of the men by the
collar and put a pistol to his head.

"How many men have you on board, Captain Flanger?" demanded the third
lieutenant, still standing up in the boat abreast of the person he
addressed.

"Count them for yourself!" exclaimed Captain Flanger in brutal tones.

"All right: I will count you first," added Mr. Pennant, as he reached
over and seized the leader of the party by the collar with his right
hand.

  [Illustration: Colonel Homer Passford Visits the Bronx.--Page 219.]

Flanger attempted to shake off his grasp, but the lieutenant was a very
powerful man, and he dragged him into the boat in the twinkling of an
eye. He tossed him into the bottom of the boat, five of the boat's crew
being still in their seats, trailing their oars, for only seven of them
had been able to get on board of the Magnolia for the want of space.

"Tie his hands behind him," added Mr. Pennant to the men, who fell upon
Flanger the moment he lighted in the bottom of the cutter.

The prisoner was disposed to make further resistance, but two men fell
upon him and made him fast to one of the thwarts. The leader of the
party, as he appeared to be from the first, could do no further
mischief, and the lieutenant gave his attention to the others on board
of the sloop. The dignified gentleman, who was dressed in black clothes,
though they had suffered not a little from contact with grease and tar,
had seated himself in the standing room. He looked like a man of many
sorrows, and his expression indicated that he was suffering from some
cause not apparent.

There were nine men left in the standing room, including the gentleman
in black; they were coarse and rough-looking persons, and not one of
them appeared to be the social peer of him who had condemned the firing
upon the boat. The skipper remained at the tiller of the boat, and he
looked as though he might have negro blood in his veins, though he was
not black, and probably was an octoroon. He said nothing and did
nothing, and had not used a musket when the others fired. He behaved as
though he intended to be entirely neutral. A few drops of negro blood in
his veins was enough to condemn him to inferiority with the rude fellows
on board of the sloop, though his complexion was lighter than that of
any of his companions.

"Vincent, pass one half of the men on board of the cutter," said Mr.
Pennant, when he had looked over the boat and the men on board of it.

The quartermaster obeyed the order, and four of the party were placed
in the bow and stern sheets of the cutter. Six oarsmen were directed
to take their places on the thwarts. The lieutenant retained his place
in the stern sheets, which he had not left during the affray or the
conference. Three seamen, with a pistol in one hand and a cutlass in the
other, were directed to remain on board of the sloop; but the party had
been disarmed, and their muskets were in the bottom of the cutter, and
they were not likely to attempt any resistance. The painter of the sloop
was made fast to the stern of the Bronx's boat, and Mr. Pennant gave the
order for the crew to give way.

It had been a battle on a small scale, but the victory had been won, and
the cutter was towing her prize in the direction of the gunboat. The
lieutenant's first care was to attend to Hilton, the stroke oarsman who
had been wounded in the affair. He placed him in a comfortable position
on the bottom of the boat, and then examined into his condition.
A bullet had struck him in the right side, and the blood was flowing
freely from the wound. Mr. Pennant did the best he could for his relief,
and the man said he was comfortable.

"Sail ahead!" shouted the bow oarsman, looking behind him.

"What is it, Gorman?" asked the lieutenant, standing up in his place.

"A steamer, sir," answered Gorman.

"I see her; it is the Bronx," added Mr. Pennant.

By this time it was broad daylight, and apparently the fog was not as
dense as it had been earlier in the morning. The boat with her tow
continued on her course, now headed for the gunboat which the officer
had made out. In ten minutes more the expedition was within hailing
distance of the steamer, which immediately stopped her screw.

The cutter came up at the gangway of the Bronx, and Christy was standing
on the rail, anxious to learn what the boat had accomplished. He had
heard the report of the volley fired at the cutter, and had been very
solicitous for the safety of her crew. He had weighed anchor as soon as
he heard the sounds, and proceeded in the direction from which they
came.

"I have to report the capture of the small sloop, the Magnolia, in tow,"
said the third lieutenant, touching his cap to the commander. "We have
eleven prisoners. Hilton is wounded, and I will send him on board first,
if you please."

"Do so," replied Christy. "Mr. Camden, pass the word for Dr. Connelly."

A couple of men were directed to convey the wounded seaman up the steps,
and he was handed over to the doctor, who had him conveyed to the sick
bay. The obdurate Captain Flanger was next sent up to the deck, where
Mr. Camden received him, and made him fast to the rail without note
or comment; and even Christy made no remark except to give necessary
orders. The other prisoners were not bound, and they were put under
guard in the waist. The dignified gentleman in black was the last to
come up the stairs.

The moment he put his feet upon the deck, the commander stepped back,
with a look of profound astonishment, if not of dismay, on his face, as
he glanced at the important prisoner of the party. At first he seemed to
be unable to believe the evidence of his senses, and gazed with intense
earnestness at the gentleman.

"Uncle Homer!" exclaimed Christy, extending his hand to him, which
Colonel Passford, as he was called at home, though he was not in the
Confederate army, warmly grasped; and the first smile that had been seen
on his face played upon his lips.

"I am glad to see you, Christy," said the prisoner, if he was to be
regarded as such, for he certainly was not a sailor or a soldier.

"I cannot say as much as that," replied Christy, still holding the
gentleman's hand; "I must say I am sorry to see you under present
circumstances, for you come as a prisoner in the hands of my men."

"I am a non-combatant, Christy," replied Colonel Passford. "I have not
served in the Confederate army or navy, or even been a member of a home
guard."

"I have not time now to look into that question; but I can assure you
that you will be treated with the greatest consideration on board of my
ship," added Christy as he conducted him below, and left him with Dave
in his own cabin, returning at once to the deck to inquire into the
operations of the first cutter. The boat had been hoisted up to the
davits, and the Magnolia was made fast astern. All hands had been called
when the Bronx got under way, and the men were all at their stations.

Mr. Pennant reported in all its details upon his expedition. Dr.
Connelly said his patient was severely, but not dangerously, wounded; he
would recover, but he would not be fit for duty for two or three weeks.

"While you are here, doctor, I will show you my arm, which is beginning
to be somewhat uncomfortable," said the third lieutenant with a cheerful
smile.

"Are you wounded, Mr. Pennant?" asked the commander, who had listened to
his report at length, without suspecting that he had a wound.

"I was hit in the left arm; but very fortunately the wound did not
disable me," replied the lieutenant as he proceeded to take off his
coat.

"But I cannot dress the wound here, Mr. Pennant," added the surgeon.

"Then I will wait till I have time to attend to it," replied the heroic
officer who treated the injury with contempt; "I have not finished my
report to the captain yet. I will be in the ward room as soon as the
captain is done with me."

"But I can wait, Mr. Pennant," interposed Christy.

"So can I, if you please, captain," added the lieutenant, smiling as
pleasantly as though he had been free from pain, as he could not have
been with the wound in his arm. "I wish to say a few words about the
gentleman in black we captured on board of the sloop."

"Did you learn his name?" asked Christy, greatly interested in what the
officer was about to say.

"No, sir, I did not; I heard no one call him by name. He was in the
cuddy forward when we boarded the Magnolia; and when he came out of the
little cabin, the first thing he said was, 'It was very unwise for you
to order the men to fire upon the boat. It was a great mistake, Captain
Flanger.'"

"That shows that he at least was a non-combatant," added Christy,
pleased to hear this report of his uncle.

"That is all I have to say about him. I studied the skipper of the sloop
and watched him. I am sure he did not fire a musket, and he seemed to
take no part in the affairs of the men on board. Captain Flanger is the
active man of the party; but I have no idea who or what he is. If you
look at the skipper, you will see that he is an octoroon, or something
between a mulatto and a white man, and in my opinion he is not a
cheerful worker on that side of the house. Perhaps the skipper will
be willing to tell you who and what the party are. They claimed to be
private citizens, and that the sloop was bound to Appalachicola; perhaps
the gentleman in black can explain the mission of the party."

"If he can he will not, if they were engaged in an operation in the
interest of the Confederates," added Christy with a smile. "That
gentleman is Colonel Homer Passford."

"He bears your name," said Mr. Pennant.

"He is my uncle; my father's only brother."

"Then I am sorry I brought him in."

"You did your duty, and it was quite right for you to bring him on
board. He is as devoted to the Confederate cause as my father is to the
Union. But go below, and have your wound dressed, Mr. Pennant."

The lieutenant went to the ward room where the surgeon was waiting for
him. Christy called out the skipper of the sloop, and walked into the
waist with him. The octoroon was a large man, of about the size of the
third lieutenant, and he could have made a good deal of mischief if he
had been so disposed.

"Bless the Lord that I am here at last!" exclaimed the skipper, as he
looked furtively about him.

Christy understood him perfectly.




CHAPTER XX

AN EXPEDITION TO ST. ANDREW'S BAY


"What is your name, my man?" asked Christy, as he looked over the
stalwart form of the skipper of the Magnolia.

"Michael Bornhoff," replied the prisoner.

"Are you a Russian?" asked the commander, inclined to laugh at this
singular name of one of the proscribed race.

"No, sir; but I was named after a Russian sailor Captain Flanger picked
up in Havana. I don't mean this Captain Flanger that was on board of the
Magnolia, but his father," replied the stout fellow.

"Are you a free man?"

"No, sir; I belong to Captain Flanger: his father is dead, and left me
to his son."

"Why did you bless the Lord that you were here at last?"

"Because I have been trying to get here for more than a year," replied
the contraband, after looking about him for a moment, and then dropping
his voice as though he feared Captain Flanger might hear what he said.
"Now, mister, will you tell me who you are before I say anything more?
for I shall get my back scored with forty-nine stripes if I open my
mouth too wide;" and again he looked timidly around the deck.

"You are on board of the United States steamer Bronx, and I am the
commander of her," replied Christy, desiring to encourage Michael
Bornhoff to tell all he knew about the expedition in the Magnolia.

The skipper took his cap off, and bowed very low to Christy when he
realized that he was talking to the principal personage on board of the
gunboat. He was well dressed for one in his position, and displayed no
little dignity and self-possession. Perhaps, if he had not been tainted
with a few drops of black blood in his veins, he might have been a
person of some consequence in the Confederate service.

"Not a bad wound at all, Captain Passford," said Mr. Pennant. "The
doctor says I am still fit for duty."

"Captain Passford!" exclaimed Michael Bornhoff, as he heard the name;
and the third lieutenant passed on to take a look at the prisoners.

"That is my name," added Christy, smiling at the earnestness of the
skipper.

"That is a bad name for this child," said the octoroon, shaking his
head. "Are you the son of Colonel Passford?"

"I am not; but I am his nephew," replied the commander, willing to be
perfectly frank with him.

"Bless the Lord that you are his nephew and not his son!" exclaimed
Michael fervently, as he raised his eyes towards the sky, which was
beginning to be visible through the fog. "I have heard about you, for
I was to pilot a vessel out of Cedar Keys when you came up there in
command of the boats. Colonel Passford was over there, and he saw you
on board of the Havana."

"Then we understand each other, Mr. Bornhoff," added Christy.

"Perfectly, Captain Passford; and I would trust you with my freedom,
which is the dearest thing on earth to me. But don't call me 'mister,'
or you will make me forget that I am a nigger," said the skipper,
laughing in his delight to find that he was in good and safe hands.
"Captain Flanger called me Mike always, and that is a good enough name
for me."

"Very well, Mike; you are a free man on board of this ship."

"I ought to be, for I am a whiter man than Captain Flanger."

"Now tell me what you know about that expedition on board of the
Magnolia," said Christy more earnestly. "Mr. Pennant reports that your
passengers claimed that they were peaceable citizens, and that your
sloop was bound to Appalachicola. Was that true?"

"Just then they were peaceable enough; but they were not when Captain
Flanger ordered them to fire on your men. Colonel Passford and I were
the only peaceable citizens on board of the sloop, and I was no citizen
at all," replied the skipper, laughing.

"You are one now, at any rate. Were you bound to Appalachicola?"

"Not just then, captain," chuckled Mike, who seemed to be amused
and delighted to feel that he was telling the secrets of his late
companions.

"We were going to Appalachicola after a while, where we were to pilot
out some vessels loaded with cotton."

"Then there are cotton vessels at that port, are there?" asked Christy,
pricking up his ears at this suggestion.

"Half a dozen of them, and a steamer to tow them to sea."

"Are you sure of this information, Mike?"

"I did not see them there, Captain Passford; but it was your uncle's
business to look after them, as he was doing in St. Andrew's Bay."

"Then my uncle has vessels in that bay which are to run out?" inquired
Christy, deeply interested in the revelations of the skipper.

"Only one, sir: a steamer of five hundred tons, called the Floridian."

"Precisely; that is the vessel we are after. But what was my uncle doing
on board of your sloop, with Captain Flanger and the rest of your
party?"

"My master was the captain of the Floridian, and we came out here to
see if there was any blockader near, that had come up in the fog. The
steamer was to be brought out by the pilot, who has been on board of her
for three days."

"Who were the men with muskets on board of the sloop?"

"Those were the coast guard, sir," replied Mike, chuckling again.

"The coast guard? I don't understand that," replied Christy, puzzled at
the expression.

"Eight of them, sir; and they have been keeping guard on Crooked, St.
Andrew's, and Hurricane Islands, to let them know inside if there was
any blockader coming this way. They had sky-rockets and flags to make
signals with."

"But why were they brought off if the steamer is still in the bay?"

"The Floridian was coming out this morning in the fog, if Captain
Flanger made the signal for her to do so. Then the captain was to go on
board of her, and I was to sail the rest of the party to Appalachicola,"
replied Mike, still chuckling with delight at his ability to give the
commander such important information.

"Then the Floridian is all ready to come out of the bay?" asked Christy,
suppressing the excitement he was beginning to feel.

"All ready, sir; and the signal was a sky-rocket, which the pilot could
see over the fog."

"We will not give them any signal, but we will treat them to some
visitors. Is the steamer armed, Mike?"

"No, sir; not a single big gun, and she has only hands enough to work
her. Steam all up when we came out of the bay, sir," said Mike, laughing
heartily, apparently in spite of himself.

"Call all hands, Mr. Camden," said the commander in brusque tones.

The boatswain's whistle sounded through the steamer. In a moment, as it
were, all hands were in their stations. Nothing like a drill with the
present ship's company had been possible, though the men had been
trained to some extent at the navy-yard and on board of the Vernon; but
the majority of the crew were old men who had served some time on board
of the Bronx, and under the present commander.

The prisoners appeared to be quite as much interested in the proceedings
on deck as the ship's company, and closely observed everything that was
done. Michael Bornhoff was quite excited, and walked the deck hurriedly,
as though he was in search of something to do; but he was very careful
not to go near the place where Captain Flanger was made fast to the
rail.

"Mr. Flint," called the commander to the first lieutenant, as soon as
the crew were assembled on deck, "there is a steamer of five hundred
tons in St. Andrew's Bay, all ready to come out at a given signal from
the party just captured by the first cutter. I propose to capture her
with the boats, and you will take the command of the expedition. The
first and second cutters will be employed, and you will see that they
are ready."

"The boats are in good condition, sir, and they will be ready in five
minutes," replied Mr. Flint, who had come on deck at the call for all
hands, and had hardly learned the results of the recent boat expedition.

"Mr. Camden will take charge of the second cutter," added Christy.

While the crews were making the boats ready, and Mr. Camden was
selecting the extra men for them, as he was instructed to do, Christy
gave the executive officer a brief account of the capture of the sloop,
and an epitome of the information he had obtained from Bornhoff.

"What am I to do, Captain Passford?" asked Mike, who was watching the
proceedings on deck with the most intense interest. "I want to ship in
the Yankee navy as a pilot, for I know this coast from the Mississippi
to Key West."

"Are you a sailor?" asked Christy.

"I went to sea for eleven years, and Captain Flanger, father and son,
put my wages in their pockets."

"You cannot ship as a pilot, only as an able seaman, if you know how to
hand, reef, and steer, and how to make knots and splices."

"I know all that, captain, like I know my name."

"Then I will look upon you as an able seaman until you are formally
enlisted. Mr. Flint, this man is Michael Bornhoff; he is an able seaman
and a pilot in these waters. I think you had better take him with you,
for he is fully informed in regard to the Floridian, which you are to
bring out. Let him have pistols and a cutlass," said Christy.

In ten minutes more the expedition left the ship, and soon disappeared
in the low bank of fog that still hung over the shore. Each of the
cutters had been manned by twelve men besides the officer, and Mike was
an extra hand with the first lieutenant. What remained of the port watch
were on duty, and the rest of the men were dismissed.

Mr. Pennant had the deck, and the commander walked back and forth,
considering the information he had obtained from the skipper of the
Magnolia, of the correctness of which he had no doubt, for Mike
impressed him as a truthful man, and, like all the contrabands, his
interest was all on the side of the Union, which meant freedom to them.
For the first time he began to feel not quite at home in his new
position. He had been compelled to fight for it; but he absolutely
wished that he were the first or second lieutenant rather than the
commander of the vessel.

The traditions of the navy, and of all navies, forbade him to leave his
ship to engage in any enterprise connected with his mission. He had to
take all the responsibility of failure, while he could not take an
active part on such occasions as the present. He had the glory of being
a commander, and of whatever his ship accomplished; but it began to look
like a life of inactivity to him, for he was not greedy of glory, and
all his devotion was for the Union.

He had learned that several vessels were loading with cotton at
Appalachicola, with the intention of running the blockade, if there
was any blockader off Cape St. George. His uncle Homer was engaged in
superintending the fitting out of these vessels, though whether on his
own account or that of the Confederacy, he was not aware. Christy felt
that he ought to follow up the information he had obtained with decided
action; but he was hardly in condition to do so, for he had fifteen
prisoners on board, and he would be obliged to send a prize crew off in
the Floridian when she was brought out, as he was confident she would
be. He could not settle the question at once, and he went down into his
cabin, where his uncle was waiting very impatiently to see him, and had
asked Dave a dozen times in regard to him.

Colonel Passford was naturally very anxious to ascertain what had been
done, and what was to be done, by the Bronx; but the steward was too
discreet to answer any of his questions, and he was not aware that his
son Corny was a prisoner on board as well as himself.




CHAPTER XXI

A NON-COMBATANT ON BOARD THE BRONX


Colonel Passford was reclining on the divan when the commander entered
the cabin; but he rose to his feet as soon as he saw his nephew. Christy
thought he looked thinner and paler than when he had last seen him.
He was now only forty-two years old, but he looked like a man of fifty.

"I have been wanting to see you, Christy," said the planter, as he
approached his nephew. "I learn, with no little astonishment, that you
are the commander of this steamer."

"I am, uncle Homer," replied the young man.

"Then you can tell me better than any one else in regard to my status
on board of the Bronx," added the colonel, who had won this title years
before in the militia. "Am I considered a prisoner of war?"

"I do not so consider you, uncle Homer; but I cannot say how my superior
officer will look at the matter when I report to him. You were taken in
a sloop that fired upon the first cutter of the Bronx, wounding one of
the crew and the officer in command."

"That was the folly of Captain Flanger; and I protested the moment I
discovered what had been done," added the planter, who seemed to be
anxious to relieve himself of all responsibility for the discharge of
the muskets.

"Were you in charge of the sloop, uncle Homer?"

"I was not; I had nothing to do with the sloop. She belonged to Captain
Flanger."

"Who is Captain Flanger?" asked Christy.

"You have him on board, and perhaps he had better answer the question
himself," replied Colonel Passford with a smile.

"It was a superfluous question, for I know all about him. He is the
captain of the Floridian, though that would not make him a combatant
unless he fights his ship; and that is what he did on board of the
Magnolia. I regard him and his companions, except the skipper of the
sloop, as prisoners of war. You proved by your words and conduct that
you were not a combatant, and you are at liberty to depart when you
please."

The young commander did not feel entirely sure that his ruling was
correct, for a naval officer must be learned in a great variety of
subjects which he had not had time to study; but he was willing to take
the responsibility in the present instance.

"It is easy enough to say that I may depart; but how shall I do it?"
added the planter with a smile. "I cannot swim ashore."

"I will put you ashore in a boat at the nearest land when the fog clears
off," replied Christy.

"The nearest land is an island, and there is hardly anything like a
village on the entire Bay of St. Andrew's. The region is deserted now,
and I might wander about there for a month, till I starved to death,
before I could get to a settled region."

"I shall not compel you to land, and you can remain on board till I
report to the flag-officer of the Eastern Gulf squadron, off Pensacola,
if you desire to do so; but you will be subject to his decision and not
mine then."

"I prefer that to starving to death in this region," replied the
colonel.

"Very well, uncle Homer, that is settled," added Christy. "Now, how are
aunt Lydia and Gerty? I hope they are well."

"Very well the last time I saw them, which was three weeks ago. They are
busy making garments for the soldiers," answered the planter.

"When did you last hear from Corny, uncle Homer?"

"It is all of two months since I had any news in regard to him. He is
still a soldier and has not yet been promoted. His company is still at
Fort Gaines; but he has been sent away once or twice on detached duty.
He is not given to writing many letters; but the last time I was in
Mobile I was told that he had again been sent off on some sort of secret
service with a naval officer by the name of Galvinne. I do not know
whether the report was true or not."

"It was quite true, uncle Homer; and he has been quite as unfortunate
as he was in his former expedition to the North," added Christy very
quietly.

"What do you know about him, Christy?" asked the colonel with the
deepest interest.

"I can assure you first that he is alive and well. I am not informed how
he got to New York, but he did get there, and in company with two naval
officers, one by the name of Byron, as well as Galvinne."

"Byron was an actor in Mobile; he had been the mate of a cotton ship,
and he obtained a commission in the navy; but for the want of a steamer
both of them were unemployed," the planter explained.

"In New York they got up a plan to obtain a small steamer, about the
size of the Bronx," continued Christy. "Galvinne had been in the navy,
and he readily obtained an appointment as second lieutenant of the
store-ship Vernon. Byron shipped as a seaman. Corny was appointed by the
two officers to take the place of a regular officer, who came down in
the Vernon. He looked something like the officer whom he personated, who
was to command a small steamer in the gulf."

"It was a hazardous plan," suggested Colonel Passford, "and I should
suppose that Corny was hardly competent to play such a _rle_. I hope
the scheme was successful, for, as you know very well, all my prayers
and all my aspirations are for the triumph of the Confederate cause."

"The scheme was successful up to a certain point, and Corny obtained
the command of the steamer, passing for the genuine officer before the
commodore, and even on board of the vessel where the commander was well
known."

"That sounds like a story for a novel," added the planter, smiling.

"If there had been no setback, Corny would have gone into Pensacola Bay
in a few hours more, in nominal command of the steamer, though of course
Galvinne was the real commander."

"It is a strange story, and I cannot see how Corny succeeded in passing
himself off as the officer he personated."

"He stole that officer's commission and other papers while he was
sleeping in his own home," added Christy.

"But where did you learn this history of Corny's operations?" asked
his uncle, knitting his brow as though he did not quite believe the
narrative.

"Oh, I am the officer whom Corny personated," replied the commander with
a quiet smile. "The story is not a second-handed one, uncle Homer."

"Corny pretended to be Christy, did he? Then you must have seen him if
he took your commission."

"He did not do that in person; but employed Byron to do it for him; and
for several weeks this actor was a house-servant at Bonnydale," answered
Christy, as he proceeded to narrate the adventure more in detail. "It is
not an old story, for the last event occurred on board of the Bronx at
about eight o'clock last evening."

"The plan was not finally successful, more is the pity," added the
Southern gentleman.

"It was not; for I had concealed myself on board when I realized what
Galvinne was about, and, with the aid of the officers who knew me,
captured the vessel. I am now in command of her, and I am likely to
have a prize to assist in establishing my identity when I report to the
flag-officer."

"But what became of Corny?" asked Colonel Passford, with no little
anxiety on his face.

"He is quite safe; he is a prisoner of war below, with a pair of
handcuffs on his wrists," replied Christy. "You and he together made the
nest for him, and he must sleep in it. I cannot say what the commodore
will do with you."

"Corny on board of this steamer!" exclaimed the father. "In irons too!"

"I consider the naval officers as dangerous men, and I had to treat
Corny in the same manner that I did his associates. If you wish to see
him, I will send for him."

"Of course I should like to see my son."

Christy struck his bell, and the steward promptly appeared at the door.

"Dave, go to the quarters, and conduct the prisoner, Mr. Passford,
to this cabin. You may take off his handcuffs; here is the key," said
Christy, and steward took the key and departed.

"How high is the grass in the streets of New York, Christy?" asked the
colonel, with a twinkle of the eye, and a smile.

"Grass! They don't raise it in the city; and there isn't as much of it
in all the streets as I saw in the principal one in Mobile when I was
there, on my way from the prison to the bay," replied the commander
cheerfully. "I don't believe that business was ever so lively in New
York and the other cities of the North as it is at this time; and I left
there ten days ago."

"Do the people there really expect to put down the Rebellion, as they
call it, nephew?" asked Colonel Passford, in a tone which indicated his
confidence in the final success of his cause.

"They have no doubt whatever that the Rebellion will be crushed out.
The last time we met you did not believe that a blockade could be
established; but it has been done, and the government is strengthening
it every day. It is effective, too; and I have been concerned in the
capture of nearly a dozen vessels that were trying to break through."

"You have been very fortunate, nephew; but it will be impossible to
conquer the South. We shall be the victors in the end as sure as there
is a God in heaven who watches over the affairs of men."

"One who can believe that would swallow Baron Munchausen without
blinking. But I think we had better not talk politics, uncle Homer, for
we don't get ahead at all. I shall continue to stand by the Union, and
the South will raise the same cry after a few years more," said Christy,
as Dave opened the door, and ushered the prisoner into the cabin.

Father and son shook hands, but they were not so demonstrative as
they might have been. Christy was not disposed to burden them with
his presence, but he insisted that Dave should stay there during the
interview. He left them together for two hours, and then sent Mr.
Pennant and a seaman to remove Corny to the quarters. Dave said they
had talked only of family matters, though the son had explained to his
father the plan to obtain possession of the Bronx.

When the commander went on deck, the fog had disappeared, and the shore
was to be seen at the distance of about six miles from the steamer. At
eight bells, or noon, a steamer was discovered coming out of the bay by
a channel between two islands. She carried the American flag over the
Confederate, and no one doubted that she was the Floridian. In half an
hour she was alongside, and she looked like a fine vessel, for she had
come from the other side of the ocean as a blockade-runner.

Mr. Flint reported that she had been captured without any resistance on
the part of the crew. There was no incident worth relating in connection
with the capture, though she was full of cotton, and brought over
seventy thousand dollars when the vessel and cargo were sold. The two
cutters were brought alongside, and hoisted up to the davits.

"I suppose the steamer has a supply of coal on board, Mr. Flint."

"Enough to take her to Liverpool," replied the first lieutenant.

"There are several vessels in Appalachicola Bay, and I thought of
attending to them; but I think we have too much on our hands now, and
I shall sail at once for the station. You will take charge of the
Floridian, Mr. Flint, with such crew as you need," said Christy.

In less than half an hour the two vessels were under way, and just at
dark they were within hail of the flag-ship.




CHAPTER XXII

THE STRANGER IN THE CAPTAIN'S CABIN


The Bronx had been absent from the station hardly more than thirty
hours; but she had accomplished the mission with which she had been
charged in her secret orders. The Vernon was still at anchor near the
flag-ship. Christy hastened on board of the latter to make his report,
which he had written out during the passage; in fact, he had two
reports, one of the capture of the Bronx, and the other of the
Floridian.

"You have done your work very promptly, Captain Passford," said the
commodore with a smile.

"The circumstances favored me, sir," replied Christy, bowing. "I desire
to call your attention to the first of the two reports I submit, for the
first battle I was called upon to fight was on board of the Bronx."

"On board of the Bronx!" exclaimed the flag-officer. "Do you mean that
you had a mutiny to suppress?"

"I had not the honor to communicate with you yesterday before the Bronx
sailed for her destination; but I believe you were called upon to decide
upon the identity of the officer who presented himself to you as the
lieutenant appointed to the command of the Bronx, introduced by Captain
Battleton of the Vernon."

"I was hardly called upon to decide anything, for the matter in doubt
had been settled by the commander of the Vernon before it came to my
knowledge; but I agreed with him that the commission ought to settle the
point. Are you not the officer presented to me by Captain Battleton,
Captain Passford?" asked the commodore, gazing earnestly into the face
of Christy.

"I am not, sir."

"You are not! Who are you, then?"

"I am Lieutenant Christopher Passford."

"Who was the other officer?"

"He was not an officer, either of the navy or the army, but my cousin,
Cornelius Passford, a soldier in the Confederate army."

"I am amazed, and I fear the officers in charge at Brooklyn are not as
cautious as they should be. Not long ago a steamer had to return to the
navy-yard there because her machinery had been tampered with; and the
enemy are putting men on board of steamers for the purpose of capturing
them. Where is your cousin now, Captain Passford?"

"He is a prisoner on board of the Bronx, with two Confederate naval
officers who were his associates in the conspiracy; and we have also two
seamen," replied Christy, who proceeded to give the narrative in full of
the work done on board of the Bronx on the evening of the day she sailed
from the station.

The sea was smooth, and the commander of the Bronx was directed to bring
her alongside the flag-ship. As soon as this was done, all the prisoners
on board of her were transferred to the custody of the commodore.
Christy introduced his uncle Homer to the flag-officer, suggesting that
he was a non-combatant, and stating that he had offered to put him on
shore at St. Andrew's Island.

"I think you are correct in your view, Captain Passford, though probably
he is of more service to the Confederate government, as your father is
to our own, than a score of sailors or soldiers; but modern civilization
does not hold civilians as prisoners of war. Besides, he is doing so
much to provide our vessels with prizes in the matter of cotton ships,
that it would be a pity to take him out of his sphere of usefulness to
us," added the commodore with a smile.

"The other men in the sloop, with the exception of the skipper, fired
upon my boat, and wounded an officer and a seaman."

"They were taken in arms, and therefore they are prisoners. But you lost
all your commissioned officers but one in the affair on board of the
Bronx, Captain Passford."

"I did, sir; and I was obliged to fill their places;" and Christy
described the men he had appointed.

"There are no officers here that I can give you in their places, and I
am obliged to order you away immediately on another expedition. The
Floridian is a valuable prize; and I must send her to New York, for I am
confident the government will purchase her for the navy. Your acting
lieutenants must continue to serve as such for the present."

"I ask for no better officers, sir. They are well educated, and have
had a great deal of experience as sailors outside of the navy," replied
Christy.

At this time the preparations for the reduction of the forts on the
Mississippi were in progress, and every available vessel was called into
activity. The Bronx had been built for a blockade-runner, and for a
steamer of her size she was of exceptional speed. The vessels of the
Eastern Gulf squadron were employed to a considerable extent in
destroying salt works on the west coast of Florida; but the commodore
was not disposed to order the fleet little gunboat upon such service.

"Is the Bronx in condition for immediate service, Captain Passford?"
asked the flag-officer.

"She is, sir; she has not been in action since her crew was reinforced,"
answered Christy.

"I did not expect your return so soon, but I have your sealed orders
ready. You will get under way as soon as possible," added the commodore,
handing him the sealed envelope. "You will make your course south-west,
and open your orders at twelve o'clock to-night."

The commander of the Bronx left the cabin where the interview had taken
place. On the deck he met his uncle, who was curious to know what was to
be done with him.

"I can only say that you will not be held as a prisoner of war; but I
must leave you in the hands of the flag-officer, who will dispose of you
as he thinks best. I sail in the Bronx immediately."

Christy hastened on board of his vessel, after hastily shaking hands
with uncle Homer. All the prisoners had been removed from her, and the
commodore had sent a ship's company to the Floridian to relieve the
prize crew in charge of her. He had only to wait for Mr. Flint and the
men attached to the Bronx; and they came on board within an hour.

"You will call all hands, Mr. Flint," said the commander, as soon as the
executive officer appeared on the deck; and the call of the boatswain's
mate sounded through the vessel.

"I came on board to pay my respects to you, Captain Passford," said
Captain Battleton of the Vernon, who had been waiting for him. "Things
have changed since I last saw you. I do not know whether I ought to
apologize to you for my decision on board of the Vernon, or not."

"Not at all, Captain Battleton," replied Christy, taking the hand of the
commander of the store-ship. "The flag-officer sustained your decision;
and with my commission in the pocket of my cousin, I do not see that you
could have adjusted the question in any other manner. I assure you I
have not a particle of ill-feeling towards you on account of what you
did in the discharge of your duty."

"But I do not quite understand the matter yet. You disappeared very
suddenly; and when I wanted to present you to the commodore, you could
not be found," added the captain of the Vernon. "I am very curious to
know what became of you."

"I came on board of the Bronx, and put myself in a place where you
were least likely to look for me,--under the berth in the captain's
stateroom. I was at home there, for I had occupied the room while I was
the acting commander of the vessel on her voyage to the Gulf. But you
must excuse me now, for I am ordered to get under way at once; and the
ship's company of the Floridian have reported on board."

"I may yet be called upon to serve under you some time in the future;
and I did not wish to have any prejudice against me on account of my
decision, in which my officers concurred."

"I have not the slightest prejudice against you and while we stand by
the Union, shoulder to shoulder, we shall be friends," replied Christy,
warmly pressing the hand of the captain of the Vernon.

Captain Battleton returned the pressure as heartily as it had been
given, and departed from the gunboat. The commander gave the order to
the first lieutenant to get under way; and the fasts were cast off from
the flag-ship. The Bronx backed away from her, came about, and was ready
to proceed on her voyage to the destination as yet unknown on board of
her.

"Make the course south-west, Mr. Flint," said the commander, as soon as
the vessel was ready, and her screw was in motion.

"South-west," repeated the first lieutenant, addressing the
quartermaster who was conning the wheel.

Standing on the bridge with the executive officer, Christy took his
leave mentally of the flag-ship, and the few other vessels that were
on the station; for most of them were on duty in various expeditions
engaged in the destruction of salt works. A boat expedition had just
captured Appalachicola, with all the vessels loading with cotton in
the bay. The young commander congratulated himself that he had a fast
steamer, for that caused him to be employed in more active duty than the
work of destruction on shore.

"South-west," said Mr. Flint, after the port watch had been dismissed,
leaving the starboard with Mr. Camden as watch officer on deck.
"I thought it probable that we should be sent to Appalachicola after
the information the Russian gave us."

"The boats of the Mercidita and Sagamore have captured the place, and
picked up five or six small vessels loaded with cotton, I was informed
by the commodore," replied Christy.

"We are bound to the westward, and the course looks as though we might
be ordered up the Mississippi," suggested Mr. Flint.

"I hardly think so, though I should be pleased to have it so."

"Why do you think it is not likely, Captain Passford?" asked the
executive officer curiously.

"Because the Bronx is a fast vessel compared with most of the steamers
of the navy, hardly any of which are good for more than twelve knots an
hour, while this ship will make sixteen when she is driven, and fourteen
under ordinary circumstances when we are not trying to save coal. Of
course I have no idea what duty we are to perform, and I am not anxious
to know till the time comes, though midnight is a rather odd time to
open the envelope."

"Probably the odd time means something."

"No doubt of it; for to-morrow morning by four bells we shall be off the
passes of the Mississippi, and our mission may be up Lake Pontchartrain,
or at Ship Island. But let that matter rest, for in three hours and a
half we shall know all about it. I want to ask you about the man you
call the Russian."

"He is a good man, and quite as intelligent as any of our seamen. He is
a pilot on the coast of Florida, and may be farther to the westward so
far as I know. He is forty-seven years old, though he does not look it,
and has been to sea all his life. By the way, that Captain Flanger has
done some business as a smuggler, Mike informs me."

"He looks like a desperate character," added Christy, as he went below
to attend to his supper, which he had so far neglected.

Dave was standing by the door when he entered his cabin. Seated at the
table was a man of stalwart frame, who was helping himself to the viands
prepared for the commander, and making himself entirely at home.

"Good-evening, Captain Passford; I hope you are all right. I waited a
reasonable time for you to come below to supper; but as you did not
appear, I have made myself at home, for my appetite has been somewhat
stimulated to-day," said the stranger.

The commander looked at the man; but he did not know him.




CHAPTER XXIII

A VERY IMPUDENT DECLARATION


Christy looked at the stranger with astonishment, and he could not
imagine who he could be. He had seen no such person on board of the
Bronx or on the deck of the flag-ship. When the prisoners from the
Magnolia had been brought on board, Christy had been too much occupied
with other matters to bestow any attention upon them with the exception
of "the dignified gentleman in black," who proved to be his uncle. He
had had no curiosity in regard to them, and Mr. Camden had disposed of
them at the rail.

The commander thought it very strange that there should be a person on
board of the steamer, and especially in possession of his cabin, who was
an entire stranger to him. He looked at the intruder, who was a stoutly
built man of rather more than forty years of age, with his hair and full
beard somewhat grizzled by age. He was dressed like a seaman in blue
clothes, though he was evidently not a common sailor, but might have
been the master or mate of a vessel.

"I am sorry to have kept you waiting for your supper, sir," replied
Christy, falling in with the humor of his involuntary guest. "But that
was the fault of my steward, who ought to have informed me that I was to
have the pleasure of your company at supper."

"Don't blame him, Captain Passford, for it was not his fault that he did
not announce my presence to you. He wished to do so, but I assured him I
was not disposed to disturb you, for you must be occupied with your own
affairs, and I persuaded him not to go for you," added the person with
perfect self-possession.

"You were very considerate," answered Christy, looking at the steward,
who had stationed himself behind the unwelcome guest.

Dave looked as solemn as an owl, and his ivories seemed to be sealed up
in his expansive mouth. He attempted to make a sign to the captain, but
it was not understood. At that moment, the stranger raised his finger
and beckoned to the steward.

"What is your name, boy?" he asked.

"Dave, sir," replied he, evidently deeply impressed by the visitor for
some reason not yet apparent to the captain.

"I don't like to have a man stand behind me, and you will take your
place in the rear of Captain Passford, who is more worthy of your
attention than I am;" and though Dave was a brave fellow, he obeyed the
order.

It was evident enough to Christy that there had been some kind of a
scene in the cabin before he came below, for the steward had certainly
been intimidated by the powerful visitor.

"This fish seems to be red snapper, captain, and it is very good. Will
you allow me to help you to some of it?" continued the stranger very
politely.

"Thank you, sir; I will take some of it, if you please," replied
Christy, as he passed his plate across the table. "Of course, as you
have done me the honor to take a seat at my table, I must be acquainted
with you."

"We have met before," replied the stranger. "Shall I help you to some of
these fried potatoes? They are very good, and I can recommend them.

I have already learned that you have an excellent cook on board. I
should judge from these potatoes that he was brought up in New Orleans."

"It may be he was; I don't know about that. You say that we have met
before, but to save my life, I cannot recall the time, and I am sorry to
add that I do not identify your face as that of any person I ever saw
before. I have the pleasure of introducing myself to you as Lieutenant
Christopher Passford, commanding the United States steamer Bronx."

"Thank you, Captain Passford, and I cannot well help being less polite
and less frank than you are; and I shall take the liberty of introducing
myself to your acquaintance and good offices as Captain Boyd Flanger,
lately in command of the steamer Floridian, entirely at your service."

"Indeed!" exclaimed Christy, not a little startled at the information
thus communicated, for it was plain enough that the intruder meant
mischief in spite of his good manners. "I was under the impression that
you had taken up your abode on board of the flag-ship with others who
were captured in the Magnolia."

"That is very true; I went on board of the flag-ship, but I am somewhat
fastidious in my notions, and I concluded not to remain there," replied
Captain Flanger. "Without any intention of flattering you, Captain
Passford, candor compels me to say that I prefer your company to that of
the commodore. Can I help you to anything more on my side of the table?"

"Thank you; I will have one of those lamb's tongues," replied Christy.

"They are very nice; I have just tried one of them," added Captain
Flanger, as he passed the plate over to the commander.

"You do not use your left hand, captain; I hope you were not wounded in
the affair this morning off St. Andrew's Bay."

"No, sir; I was not wounded. Your men did not fire into our party, as we
did into your boat. The fact is, Captain Passford, I have an ornament on
my left wrist which I am a little timid about displaying before people,
though I do not object to showing it to you," replied the guest, as he
held up his left hand, and from the wrist a pair of handcuffs hung down,
for he had succeeded in removing it only from his right hand.

"Such an ornament must be a nuisance to you, Captain Flanger, and I
think we will have it removed. Dave, go and ask the second lieutenant to
report to me with his keys and a file," said Christy.

"I beg your pardon, Captain Passford, for countermanding your order; but
Dave will do nothing of the sort," interposed the intruder, as blandly
as before. "Dave knows better than to obey such an order."

Dave did know better than to obey the order, and Christy was morally
certain that he had been menaced with a pistol, or threatened in some
manner if he attempted to leave the cabin. He acted as though he felt
confident that a bullet would be sent through his head if he disobeyed
the bold visitor. At the same time there was a certain amount of energy
and earnestness visible in the expression of the steward, which assured
Christy that he was ready to take part in any action that was reasonably
prudent and hopeful.

Captain Flanger had been handcuffed and made fast to the rail of the
vessel with the other prisoners, and with them he had been transferred
to the flag-ship. It was probably in this removal that he had found the
means of securing his liberty, and had made his way on board in some
manner not at all apparent to the commander of the Bronx, who had been
in conference with the commodore when the change was made.

Whether the escaped prisoner had gone to the captain's cabin for a
special purpose, or had simply followed the most convenient way that was
opened to him in his flight, it was plain enough to Christy that, at the
present time, he had an object before him. He had practically taken
possession of the cabin, and had already overawed the steward. The
commander could not see his way to do anything to improve the situation.
He had no weapon about him but his sword, and he was satisfied that the
intruder was provided with one or more revolvers, as indicated by the
appearance of the side pockets of his blue coat.

Whatever had been said about the imprudence and even recklessness of
the young lieutenant, he was really a prudent and even cautious officer.
He realized that any movement on his part would draw the fire of the
insolent intruder, and he saw that strategy was far preferable to
open violence, since the latter was likely to end only in killing or
disabling him. If he could visit his stateroom and obtain his pair of
navy revolvers, or even the smaller ones in one of the drawers of his
desk, it would improve the chances in his favor. It was evident that he
would not be permitted to do this, and he did not attempt it.

"Dave is a wise man," said the commander, after he had given a few
moments to the consideration of the situation.

"Dave is a sensible man, and I trust I shall find you his equal in that
respect, Captain Passford," replied the intruder, still seated in his
chair at the supper-table.

"I claim to be reasonably sensible," answered Christy. "As you have done
me the honor to visit me in my cabin, Captain Flanger, it is reasonable
to suppose you have some object in view, for I do not regard it as a
merely friendly call."

Though the young officer was prudent and discreet, he did not lose his
self-possession, and he smiled as though he had been simply the host in
the dining-room of the mansion at Bonnydale. There was a certain humor
about the intruder which would have pleased him under other
circumstances.

"Quite right, captain!" exclaimed the visitor. "I have an object in
view, and both my inclination and my duty are urging me to carry it
out. How your boat happened to capture the Magnolia is beyond my
comprehension up to the present moment, though I think the principal
reason was the lack of a sufficiently osseous vertebra on the part of
your worthy uncle, Colonel Passford. Then the officer in charge of the
cutter did not do what I expected him to do. Instead of falling back
when he and one of his crew were wounded, as he ought to have done, and
using the heavy revolvers with which his men were armed, he did not
delay a moment, but smashed into the sloop, and jerked his men on board
of her, cutlass in one hand and revolver in the other; and that brought
me to the end of my rope. I could not do anything more."

"I am sorry that you are dissatisfied with my third lieutenant's mode
of operations," replied Christy, laughing, though his mirth was of the
graveyard order. "But Mr. Pennant is a new officer, and that was the
first active duty he had been called upon to perform. Very likely he
will suit you better next time."

Christy yawned, or pretended to do so, and in the act he rose from the
table. Captain Flanger was silent as he did so, and watched the captain
with the eye of a lynx, as the latter placed himself behind the chair he
had occupied. He was in position to make a movement of some kind, and
the intruder deliberately drew from his right-hand coat pocket a heavy
revolver. Holding this in his hand, he drew another from the left-hand
pocket, and threw it on the table.

"I don't wish to be rude with a gentleman as polite as yourself, Captain
Passford; but you interrupted my remarks by rising from your chair,"
said Captain Flanger, with the revolver still poised in his hand, while
he dropped the other with the handcuff upon it at his side.

"Excuse me for interrupting you, Captain Flanger; but I have eaten a
hearty supper, encouraged by your friendly presence, and I was sleepy,
for my rest was broken last night, and I wanted simply to stretch
myself," replied Christy, yawning and stretching himself again.

"All right, captain; it is not necessary for me to say a single word,"
added the intruder, as he made a slight demonstration with the weapon
in his right hand, which was not lost upon the commander. "With your
permission, I will proceed with my remarks."

"Certainly, captain; go on."

"My first misfortune was in being made a prisoner. My second and most
annoying mishap was the capture of the Floridian," continued Captain
Flanger. "It was my intention to fit her out as a privateer, with the
proceeds of the sale of her cargo of cotton, for she is a good vessel,
and as fast as the Bronx, as you call her."

"Then I was very fortunate in capturing her," added Christy with a
smile.

"Perhaps not, for I intend to replace her with the Bronx."

The commander was amazed at the impudence of the intruder.




CHAPTER XXIV

A CRITICAL SITUATION IN THE CABIN


Christy looked at his cool and impudent visitor, whose declaration
was to the effect that he intended to take possession of the Bronx in
compensation for the loss of the Floridian. It looked as though he
intended to capture the gunboat now fully officered, and manned by
forty-six seaman; and so far as the commander could judge, he intended
to do it single-handed.

The lieutenant's first thought, after he realized the intention of the
intruder, was that he was insane, for no man in his senses would think
of accomplishing such a mad enterprise. His second idea was that he had
mistaken the declaration of Captain Flanger, though he had certainly
said that he meant to replace the Floridian with the Bronx, and the
statement could hardly mean anything else.

Christy was forced to admit to himself that the bold intruder had full
possession of the captain's cabin of the steamer, and that he had the
advantage of him in being armed; that any decided opposition on his part
would result in his being killed or wounded. It was not prudent for him
to do anything, and at the present stage of the proceedings he could do
nothing but temporize with his resolute foe.

"I beg your pardon, Captain Flanger; but do I understand that you
intend, single-handed and alone, to capture the Bronx?" asked the
commander, with a smile of incredulity on his face.

"Well, Captain Passford, if you fail to comprehend my purpose, it
is the fault of your understanding, and not of my plain and explicit
declaration, for I assuredly said that I intended to replace the
Floridian with the Teaser, or the Bronx as you have named her, though
she will not be called by any such nut-cracking name after I get her,"
replied the daring privateersman, as blandly and pleasantly as though he
were planning a picnic.

"Of course you see no difficulties in the way of such an undertaking as
you propose," added Christy.

"There may be difficulties; but I think they can be overcome. I purpose
to act through you, my friend, as my resources are rather limited at the
present moment. In other words, I propose that you shall issue certain
orders which I intend to dictate," Captain Flanger proceeded, as coolly
as though he had been in his own cabin instead of that of his companion.

"You mean to dictate your orders to me," repeated the commander.

"Precisely so; and you will readily see that I am not exactly in a
position to act in any other manner, as I cannot go back on deck and
deliver them in person, for your officers would be prejudiced against
me, and might be disposed to rebel against my authority."

"Not improbable," added Christy. "You propose that I shall go on deck,
and give your orders, acting as your proxy."

"Hardly, my dear friend, for I fear that on deck you would give way to
your own individual prejudices against me, and do something that would
jeopard my interest in the premises. With your approbation, I should
prefer to resort to a method that prevails in the army, though not to
any considerable extent in the navy. More clearly, I will invite you to
send your orders on deck in writing, over your own signature."

"You think that method would suit you better than the usual one of
delivering orders verbally," said Christy, laughing as much at the
coolness as at the impudence of his companion.

"It will not only suit me better, but you cannot fail to see that it is
the only practicable way for me to operate with my present very limited
resources. If I had a dozen good men and true,--not such dunderheads as
your officer captured in the Magnolia,--I should be able to proceed in a
more orderly and regular manner. In that case, I should issue my orders
in person, and not compel you to act as my intermediary."

"I understand you perfectly now; but as you have not, fortunately for
me, and unfortunately for yourself, the dozen men at hand, I am to hold
the fiddle while you play upon it, as I have seen a couple of negro
minstrels do it."

"An excellent simile, Captain Passford, and I could not have invented a
better myself," returned the privateersman. "I think we understand each
other perfectly, and therefore it is not necessary to use up any more
time in explanations. You are too intelligent a person to fail to
comprehend my plan. As an epitome of the whole scene, I may add that I
propose to do what my friend Galvinne undertook with that cousin of
yours: I intend to take the Bronx into Pensacola Bay, and have her used
in the service of the righteous cause in which the people of the South
are engaged," continued Captain Flanger, as though he believed in all he
was saying.

"I suppose it is the righteousness of the cause in particular that calls
forth your admiration," chuckled Christy.

"Precisely so; in this cause, though I drink whiskey, chew, and smoke,
and never swear except when I am excited, I am a religious man," said
the intruder, laughing.

"I suppose you were religiously inclined when you were engaged in the
business of smuggling," added the commander.

"I cannot say that I was; the cause of the South is religion itself, and
I am there every time. Who told you that I had been engaged in
smuggling?"

"It dropped from some of the men that were captured in the sloop."

"It could have dropped only from Mike Bornhoff, for he is the only one
who knew anything about it. He is my property, and when we are fairly
in Pensacola Bay I shall seize him up to the grating, and give him
thirty-nine for opening his mouth when he ought to have kept it closed.
Where is he now, for I did not find him among the prisoners?"

"He has enlisted as a seaman, and seems to be a good one. By the way,
where did you learn that my cousin attempted to take the Bronx into
Pensacola Bay?" asked Christy curiously, though he was using up the time
he could not yet improve.

"It was not your cousin at all who attempted to take the vessel into
Pensacola Bay; it was Galvinne, for Corny only acted as a figure-head,
as I intend to use you. Galvinne was a prisoner by my side on board of
the flag-ship, and told me all about it when he was releasing my right
hand from the bracelet," replied Captain Flanger.

"Then I am to do duty as a figure-head, am I?" laughed Christy.

"Precisely; and you are a better-looking one than your cousin. But
excuse me for changing the subject of the conversation, for I am losing
time. I see by the telltale over our heads that the Bronx is headed to
the south-west, which is doubtless the course you were ordered to take
by the commodore."

"The telltale is honest, and tells no lies," replied Christy.

"Where are you bound, Captain Passford?" asked Flanger, in a careless
and indifferent manner, as he looked about the cabin.

"I don't know."

"Sealed orders?"

"You must draw your own inferences, Captain Flanger."

"It won't take a six-mule team to draw that one," added the
privateersman, rather sourly for the first time. "Of course I understood
that it would not be advisable for the commodore to let it be known
exactly where the steamer is bound, and that you have sealed orders.
I shall have to trouble you, Captain Passford, to produce the envelope."

As he spoke Captain Flanger toyed with the revolver in his right hand
as if he intended that the weapon should produce its proper impression
on the mind, and especially upon the nerves, of the commander, who
had continued to walk up and down in front of the table at which his
dangerous associate was seated, occasionally pausing when a point was
made on either side.

"Of course you cannot expect me to betray the confidence of the
commodore; that would not be kind or friendly on your part, Captain
Flanger, for you can see that this is a delicate matter," said Christy,
halting in front of the table.

"It may be delicate; I admit that it is so for you: but as my plans may
depend somewhat upon a knowledge of your instructions, I really feel
compelled to insist upon this point, Captain Passford," replied the
intruder as blandly as ever. "But we are living just now in a state of
war, and it is quite impossible to act with as much delicacy us one
might desire."

"I am sorry that you feel constrained to act in this indelicate manner;
but I cannot, on my honor and conscience, violate my orders, and I must
respectfully decline to produce the envelope," replied Christy, feeling
that he had come to a crisis in the affair.

"You decline to give me your sealed orders? Do I correctly understand
you, Captain Passford?" demanded the privateersman with a frown upon his
brow.

"Undoubtedly you do. I decline to give you my sealed orders. What then?"
replied the commander, who began to feel a certain sense of shame
because he had temporized so long with the bold pirate, for he regarded
him as such.

"What then?" repeated the intruder. "Why, you will reduce me to the
disagreeable necessity of blowing out your brains, if you have any,
as I should judge that you had not, after your refusal to accede to my
request in the face of the death that awaits you."

"I beg your pardon, Captain Flanger, but do you really purpose to blow
out the brains of your figure-head?" asked Christy, as coolly as though
no such threat had been suggested to him.

About this time Dave, who had taken care to keep in the front of the
table as he had been ordered to do, seized upon his feather duster, and
began to dust the divan on the starboard side of the cabin. Flanger was
so much occupied with the commander at that moment, that he was not
disposed to take his eye off him for an instant; for certainly the
situation had become critical, and he paid no attention to the steward.
Dave was a sort of a feather-duster fiend, and he used the article a
great deal of his time, apparently as much from habit as from
cleanliness.

"I should be extremely sorry to put a ball through your head, Captain
Passford, not only because it would disfigure a handsome face, but
because you may be of great use to me," replied the pirate.

"And because, in your present enterprise as you have outlined it, you
cannot get along without me," said Christy.

"In fact, you are more than half right. The sealed orders are not
absolutely necessary to me just now, and I shall not insist upon the
production of them for the present. Now, if you will seat yourself at
the table opposite me, I will dictate an order to you, which you will
oblige me by reducing to writing, and then by signing your name to it as
commander," continued Flanger, still toying with the heavy revolver.

Christy's curiosity was excited: he thought the order would throw some
further light on the plan of the pirate; and he seated himself. Captain
Flanger proceeded to dictate to him an order to the officer of the deck,
to the effect that his sealed orders directed him to cut out a rebel
privateer under the guns of Fort McRae; ordering him to head the Bronx
to the north-west for this purpose, and instructing him to call him as
soon as he made out the shore, Christy wrote it, and the pirate told him
to sign it.

"You must excuse me, Captain Flanger, but I object to signing such an
order," replied Christy, as he rose from his chair.

"Sign it, or you are a dead man!" exclaimed Flanger fiercely.

"Be it so; death before dishonor," replied the commander firmly.

At this moment Dave had worked himself in behind the pirate; and, with a
well-directed blow with the feather duster on the head of Flanger, he
brought him to the floor.

  [Illustration: Flanger in the Captain's Cabin.--Page 281.]




CHAPTER XXV

THE DESTRUCTION OF A PROMINENT FACIAL MEMBER


The cabin steward had two feather dusters, one of which was very large,
and the other of medium size. He had used the big one so industriously
that very little was left of the feathers except the bare quills that
were inserted in a cylinder of hard wood, too heavy for the use of a
delicate female, though Dave had wielded it till it was in better
condition to be thrown overboard than to be used on the panels and
furniture of the cabin.

Captain Flanger was at the critical point in his operations, and he
was too busy with the commander to give any attention to the negro, whom
he regarded with the contempt begotten of his Southern education. Dave
was intelligent enough to understand the situation accurately, and he
realized that it was rapidly becoming critical. He knew that Christy was
unarmed, and that the whole attention of the pirate was concentrated
upon him, so that he could do nothing to help himself.

He knew also that if he attempted to leave the cabin to procure
assistance, Flanger would shoot him with as little remorse as he would
kill a coon in the woods. Watching his opportunity without trying to get
behind the intruder till the decisive moment came, he sprang into the
position he had selected in advance, and brought down the heavy head of
the feather duster upon the temple of the privateersman.

Probably it was the shock quite as much as the force of the blow that
brought down the steward's victim. But it was a heavy stroke, for the
wood of the feather duster was split into many pieces, and the stumps of
the feathers were scattered all over the table. The onslaught could not
fail to be very confusing to the ideas of the intruder, and he seemed to
be tangled up in the arm-chair in which he had been seated.

Captain Flanger was a man of stalwart proportions, and Christy realized
that he was no match for him in a hand to hand encounter, even with the
aid of the steward, for the ruffian would not fail to use his revolvers.

Dave was not satisfied with what he had done, and as his foe went over
in the chair, he sprang upon him, and tried to wrest the pistol from his
hand, and a struggle on the floor was begun, the result of which could
not be foreseen. Christy took in the situation at a glance, and while
the steward and his victim were rolling and writhing on the floor, he
darted into his stateroom, the door of which had been open all the time,
and took his heavy revolvers from the drawer where he kept them, charged
for immediate use.

When he rushed back to the cabin, Flanger had got the better of his
foe, and had risen to his feet, with his grasp upon the throat of the
steward. Then he hurled him from him with a vigorous movement with his
left hand, while he raised the right with the evident intention of
shooting him. The commander saw the imminent peril of Dave; he took a
hasty aim and fired before the intruder had time to do so. He was a good
shot with the navy revolver, for he had taken lessons and practised a
good deal with the weapon.

He had aimed at the head of Flanger, and he saw that he had hit him, for
his face was instantly covered with blood. He did not think it necessary
to fire a second shot, but he was careful not to let the opportunity
pass by if it was needed to reduce the privateersman to subjection.
Flanger dropped his weapon instantly, and Dave as instantly picked it
up. It was clear to Christy then that the battle had been fought and
won, though the defeated party had another revolver in his pocket.

In spite of his claim that he was a religious man, he indulged in a
volley of profane language which made the commander's blood run cold
in his veins. His right hand, from which he had dropped one of his
revolvers, was pressed upon his nose, as though this organ was the seat
of his injury. He stood behind the table, and continued to swear like a
pirate in a passion. His face and his hand were absolutely covered with
blood.

Both Christy and Dave kept their positions, each with a revolver in his
hand, ready to finish the victim if he exhibited any symptoms of further
violence. This was the tableau presented in the captain's cabin when
the door was suddenly opened by the first lieutenant, who rushed in,
followed by the second lieutenant and Quartermaster Vincent. Mr. Flint
had been on the quarter-deck, and had heard the report of Christy's
revolver when he fired. Calling Mr. Camden and the quartermaster, he has
come to ascertain the cause of the fracas; and the sight was certainly
impressive when he entered.

"Any orders, Captain Passford?" asked the first lieutenant, as he saw
that Christy appeared to be master of the situation.

"Stand by to secure that man," replied the commander, pointing at the
wounded man behind the table. "He has a revolver in his left coat
pocket."

The three officers promptly obeyed the order, and laid violent hands
on Captain Flanger, Mr. Flint taking the weapon from his pocket. They
seized him by the collar of his coat, and the executive officer held
his left arm, with the handcuffs on the wrist. The victim of the affray
still held on to his nose, though Mr. Camden took possession of the arm.

"You appear to be wounded, Captain Flanger?" said Christy, approaching
the table.

"Wounded, you"--

The oaths and epithets he used need not soil our page; but the prisoner
seemed to be suffering more from his wrath than from his wound.

"You have shot off by dose, you!"--groaned Flanger. "The ball welt
straight through it."

"Then you are not dangerously wounded," added Christy. "I was afraid it
had gone through your head."

"I wish it had! You have bade a scarecrow of be for life!" he gasped.

"What's the trouble here, Captain Passford?" asked Dr. Connelly,
presenting himself at the door of the cabin. "Didn't I hear the report
of a firearm in this direction just now?"

"Very likely you did, if your hearing is good," replied Christy with a
smile, for the large revolver, discharged in the small cabin, made a
tremendous noise. "The gentleman behind the table, who is holding on to
his nose, requires some of your professional skill. He was proceeding to
capture the Bronx, and had gone to the point where you find him."

"I dol't walt any Yalkee surgeod at work od be," protested Captain
Flanger, whose speech was badly affected by the injury to his nasal
organ, or by the pressure he applied to it with his hand.

"You can consult your own inclination as to that, my excellent friend.
I shall not force you to be treated by him," added Christy, "But I must
suggest that this farce has been carried far enough in my cabin."

"Farce! Do you cod this a farce?" demanded the wounded man indignantly.
"You have shot off by dose!"

In fact, Captain Flanger seemed to be more disturbed at the accident to
his proboscis, than by the failure of his quixotic scheme to capture the
Bronx. He was certainly a very good-looking man, and took good care of
his person, as indicated by the care bestowed upon his hair and beard.

"The farce came to an end when you menaced me with death if I declined
to sign the order you dictated, and the steward played the first scene
in the tragedy. I am sure it was a farce up to that time," replied
Christy. "Mr. Flint, have the prisoner put in irons, and remove him to
the quarters of the men forward. Give him a berthsack and a blanket, and
place a hand to stand guard over him."

The executive officer sent Mr. Camden on deck for a pair of handcuffs
and a couple of men to execute the order. Flanger still retained his
standing position behind the table, holding on to his nose, which
continued to bleed very freely. The surgeon went over to him, and
endeavored to obtain a sight of the mutilated member.

"I think you had better let me stanch the blood," suggested Dr.
Connelly.

"Do!" exclaimed the patient. "You will take off what is left of by
dose."

"As you please," replied the surgeon, as the second lieutenant returned
attended by two stout seamen.

"Remove the handcuff from his left wrist, and fit him out with a new
pair," said Mr. Flint, who still held the left arm of the prisoner.

Mr. Camden took off the irons, for he had a key to them, and enclosed
the wrist in the new pair. Then the two men were directed to take his
right arm, which they did, and drew his hand from his nose. This act
roused the ire of Flanger, and he began to struggle; but powerful as he
was, the two seamen were too much for him, and he was fairly handcuffed.
The second lieutenant was the officer of the deck, and he was sent back
to his post of duty. Flanger's face was so covered and daubed with the
gore from his wound that the condition of his prominent facial member
could not be determined.

"I protest agailst this brutal treatmelt!" stormed the prisoner, as he
continued to writhe in his irons. "I am a woulded plisoler!"

"I see you are; but you decline to permit the surgeon to dress your
wound. I have no more time to fool with you, and the men will put you
on a berthsack forward. If you want the surgeon to attend to your wound,
you have only to say so."

"It is a bad wound though not a dangerous one," said Dr. Connelly, who
had approached the victim of his own conspiracy near enough to obtain a
view of the injured nose. "The ball has torn away the middle of the
member, and it hangs in pieces from the wound."

"I have had enough of him; remove him to the quarters," added Christy.

"You took splendid aim, Captain Passford," said the surgeon, smiling.

"I did not aim at his nose, but at his head in a general way," replied
the commander. "I fired in a hurry, and I meant to reach his brains, if
he had any. Take him away; I am disgusted."

"The fortules of war are agailst me, Captail Passford; but if you ever
fall ilto my halds, I will cut your dose off cleal to your face," howled
the prisoner, boiling over with wrath.

"Take him away!" added Christy with energy; and the two seamen dragged
him out of the cabin, leaving only Mr. Flint, the surgeon, and the
steward in the cabin. "Dave," he continued, stepping up to the last, and
taking him by the hand, "you have behaved remarkably well, and I thank
you for the good service you have rendered to me and the cause of your
country."

"I done do what I thought was right, Captain Passford, though folks like
that fellow think a poor nigger is no account," replied the steward,
putting every tooth in his head on exhibition.

"Perhaps he will change his mind after this. If you have not saved my
life, Dave, you have saved my self-respect, for your prompt action,
quite as soon as it was prudent for you to act, redeemed me from any
further submission, and I expected to throw away my life rather than
sign that order. I think he would not have killed me, for that would
have blocked his game; but he would have wounded me in two minutes more.
I thank you with all my heart, Dave, and I shall not forget what you
have done."

"Thank you, Captain Passford," replied the steward.

"I do not fully understand this affair, captain," said Mr. Flint.

"Sit down, take a seat, doctor, and I will tell you all about it. You
may go forward, Dave, and report to me the condition of the prisoner,"
added Christy, as he seated himself at the table, and began to tell the
story of the intruder's visit to his cabin.

He finished the narrative, and the officers were discussing it when
there was a knock at the door.

"Sail on the port bow, sir," reported a quartermaster.




CHAPTER XXVI

THE MEETING WITH THE BELLEVITE AT NIGHT


Christy looked at his watch when the sail was reported to him, and found
that it wanted ten minutes of eleven. The Bronx had been steaming for
just about three hours, and must have made about forty miles, as he
hastily figured up the run in his mind.

"How was the weather when you left the deck, Mr. Flint?" asked the
commander.

"Clear as a bell, and bright starlight," replied the executive officer.

"Not a night for blockade runners," added the captain.

"No, sir."

"The sail is reported on the port bow, which looks as though she might
be coming in from sea," continued Christy, as he went into his stateroom
with his navy revolver in his hand.

He put the formidable weapon back into the drawer from which he had
taken it; but the lesson of the evening had made a strong impression on
his mind. Though he had permitted Captain Flanger to believe that he was
not at all disturbed by his presence in his cabin, and had kept up the
humor with which the intruder had introduced himself, yet he had felt a
sense of humiliation through the whole of the scene. It was a new thing
to be confronted by an enemy in his own cabin; and the privateersman,
armed with two heavy revolvers, had all the advantage, while neither he
nor the steward had a weapon of any kind.

With even an ordinary revolver in his hip pocket, he would not have been
helpless, and he might have saved himself without requiring this service
of the steward. Opening his valise, he took from it a smaller revolver,
and put it in his hip pocket, which he had never used for any other
purpose; and he resolved not to be caught again in an unarmed condition,
even when no danger was apparent. In action he carried a navy revolver
in each of his hip pockets.

Thus prepared for any emergency, though none might come for years, he
went on deck, and made his way to the bridge, where he could get the
best view of the approaching sail. He obtained his first sight of the
vessel as soon as he reached the bridge, and saw that the sail was a
steamer, much larger than the Bronx. She carried no sail, for the wind
was from the west; but the commander soon realized that she was moving
at great speed.

"We must be about forty miles off the station of the blockaders before
the entrance to Mobile Bay," said Christy, after he had thought the
matter over for a moment.

"I should think so," replied the first lieutenant.

"That sail appears to be headed for the station. She is a large steamer,
and I judge by the way she is coming up with us that she is very fast,"
added Christy with some anxiety in his tones.

"She must be a steamer of fifteen hundred tons, and perhaps more," said
Mr. Flint, after he had looked at her through his night glass.

"In that case she is too big for us to fight her, and too fast for us
to run away from her; and Captain Flanger may be a free man in a few
hours."

"It does not follow that we shall have to fight her or run away from
her," added the first lieutenant, still gazing at the approaching
steamer through his glass. "I don't believe she is a Confederate vessel.
The rebels do not buy steamers as big as that one in England."

"But they may have captured her," suggested Christy.

"I may be mistaken, Captain Passford, but I think that steamer is the
Bellevite," added Mr. Flint.

"I hope so," replied Christy, who did not like the idea of fighting
or trying to run away from a craft three times as strong as the Bronx.
"Have the ensign set at the peak, Mr. Flint." And a quartermaster was
sent aft to attend to this duty.

The strange sail continued to approach; and, little by little, the first
lieutenant, who had sailed in the Bellevite several years, identified
her as that steamer. It was probable that she had chased some vessel,
and was now returning to her station. As she came nearer, she fired a
gun for the Bronx to come to; and when within hail of her, stopped her
screw.

"Steamer, ahoy!" came from her in the well-known voice of Mr. Blowitt,
formerly the commander of the Bronx, and now executive officer of the
Bellevite.

"On board the steamer!" replied Mr. Flint from the bridge.

"What steamer is that?" called Mr. Blowitt.

"The United States steamer Bronx, under sealed orders. What steamer is
that?"

"The United States steamer Bellevite. We will send a boat to you,"
returned Mr. Blowitt.

The big steamer, as she certainly was compared with the Bronx, started
her screw again, and came within less than half a cable's length of the
little gunboat, for the water was very still, with a gentle breeze from
the westward. The boat was dropped into the water; and in a minute or
two it was at the accommodation ladder of the Bronx, when a couple of
officers mounted the side.

"I am glad to see you, Captain Passford," said Mr. Blowitt, who was
properly received when he stepped down upon the deck.

"I am just as glad to see you, Mr. Blowitt," replied Christy, taking the
offered hand of his old friend.

"Mr. Vapoor, chief engineer of the Bellevite," said the executive
officer, presenting Christy's greatest crony on earth, for he had held
back in deference to his superior officer.

"The happiest moment I have had since I saw you last!" exclaimed the
engineer, as he grasped the commander of the Bronx with his right hand,
while he threw his left around the neck of his friend, and would have
hugged him if Christy had not gently avoided such a "gush" in presence
of the watch on deck. "I wish you were back in the Bellevite, Christy."

"I wish I were myself," replied the commander, in a tone so low that
none but the visitors could hear him.

"No, you don't," interposed Mr. Blowitt. "You are commanding a little
gunboat, though you are only eighteen."

"I thought I should like it, but I find I do not as well as I expected,"
answered Christy.

"You don't like it!" exclaimed the engineer of the Bellevite.

"I do not, Paul; I think it wears upon me, though I am willing to do my
duty wherever I am ordered."

"If you wish to get back into the Bellevite, of course you can do so,
for it is not every fellow that wears shoulder-straps who has such a
backing as you have. You have only to speak, and anything reasonable is
yours. But how are all at home, Christy?"

"Florry was very well the last time I saw her, not more than two weeks
ago, and she talked a great deal about you, Paul," answered her brother,
partly in a whisper.

"Did she?" added Paul with a gush. "Then she has not forgotten all about
me. I almost wish I were not an engineer, for then I might be sent home
once in a while in charge of a prize."

Christy had only time to tell very briefly the story of the adventure
with Corny, and the capture of the Floridian, which he did for the
purpose of introducing a matter of business in the line of his
profession. The officers from the Bellevite asked him a great many
questions, though he felt obliged to cut them short before they were
half done with them.

"You must excuse me, Mr. Blowitt, for I am sailing under sealed orders,
and the commodore hurried me off as soon as I returned with the Bronx
from St. Andrew's Bay; and I do not know that my mission admits of any
delay," said Christy. "I have a prisoner on board, and I want to get rid
of him, for he is a dangerous character;" and he briefly related the
incident of the evening with Captain Flanger.

"He is a tough sinner," added the first lieutenant of the Bellevite.
"Of course I cannot take him without an order from Captain Breaker; but
I will return to the ship, and put the matter before him."

"I don't know where I am ordered, and this Flanger is capable of making
mischief if I should happen to get into a tight place," added Christy.
"I suppose you are returning to the station off Mobile Bay, and you can
dispose of him better than I can."

"If Captain Breaker decides to take your prisoner, I will send a boat
for him so as to make no unnecessary delay for you. Mr. Vapoor may
remain, and return in the boat I send, for I am confident the commander
will accede to your request. Good-by, Captain Passford," said Mr.
Blowitt, offering his hand to Christy, who pressed it most earnestly.

"What is the Bellevite doing off here, so far from her station, Paul?"
asked Christy.

"We chased a good-sized steamer out last night, and she gave us a long
run; but we picked her up, and she is now on her way to New York. She is
good for eighteen knots an hour, and the Government is sure to buy her
when she is condemned. Mr. Ballard, the second lieutenant, has gone in
her as prize-master. He is in poor health, and will get leave of absence
till he is better; but I do not believe he will ever come down here
again. Were you in earnest in what you said about not liking your
present position, Christy?"

"I don't say that I absolutely dislike it, for I mean to be happy in
whatever place my duty may call me. The responsibility weighs heavy on
me, and I should prefer to be in a subordinate position," replied
Christy very seriously. "I can't sleep as I used to."

"I am confident there will be a vacancy in the Bellevite, for Mr.
Ballard will not come back: Dr. Linscott said as much as that to me,"
added the engineer. "You can have his place if you want it."

"But there is a third lieutenant who may deserve promotion," suggested
Christy.

"Captain Breaker is dissatisfied with him, and he will get him out of
the ship, at any rate, as soon as the opportunity presents itself. I
advise you to write to your father, and tell him plainly just how you
feel," said Paul.

"I am not sure that Captain Breaker would be willing to receive me as
his second lieutenant," Christy objected.

"I am sure he would," protested Paul.

"I don't want him to take me simply because my father desires him to do
so," answered the young commander, shaking his head.

"Then let your father give him the choice of two or three officers. That
will settle the matter."

"I don't know, Paul; I will think of the matter, and write to you as
soon as I have time. There comes the boat. Mr. Flint, have the prisoner
brought on deck to be transferred to the Bellevite."

In a few minutes the two stout sailors who had removed him from the
captain's cabin appeared on deck, dragging Captain Flanger after them,
for he would not walk, and did all he could with his hands made fast
behind him to embarrass his conductors.

"Captain Passford, I protest agailst this treatment of a prisoler of
war," howled the privateersman.

"All right, Captain Flanger."

"I say I am abused, and dragged from below like a dog."

"If you stand up and walk like a man, the dog will not be dragged."

"Boat alongside, sir," reported a quartermaster.

"Put him into the boat," added Christy.

The prisoner was certainly a hideous-looking object, his face daubed
with blood, and his nose a mass of tangled flesh; but he was put into
the boat in spite of his struggles. Paul Vapoor bade his friend an
affectionate adieu, and went over the side. The Bronx started her screw
at once.




CHAPTER XXVII

THE PLANNING OF AN EXPEDITION


The Bronx continued on her course indicated in the verbal order of the
flag-officer. Christy felt that he had had a narrow escape from death,
or at least a severe wound, at the hands of the desperado who had
invaded his cabin. Flanger had escaped, after he had been put on board
of the flag-ship, with the assistance of Galvinne; and he appeared not
to have taken the trouble to render the same service to his confederate.
The ships' companies of the two steamers were inclined to converse,
giving and receiving the news; and doubtless the prisoner had taken
advantage of the confusion to slip on board of the Bronx and secrete
himself.

His scheme, which must have been devised after he obtained admission to
the cabin, was born of nothing less than madness, and could hardly have
succeeded under any circumstances, though it might have ended in killing
or disabling the commander. Christy felt that a kind Providence had
saved him, and he rendered devout thanks for the merciful interposition,
as it seemed to him.

While he was still considering the subject, he heard the call for "All
the port watch!" on deck, and Mr. Camden came below to wake the third
lieutenant, for the routine was hardly in working order on board of the
steamer. The commander went into his stateroom, and soon returned with
the sealed envelope in his hand. He was deeply interested in its
contents, for he hoped his vessel was ordered to take part in the
Mississippi expedition, which was to attack Forts Jackson and St.
Philip, and capture the city of New Orleans. Eight bells had been
struck, indicating midnight, which was the hour at which he was directed
to break the seal. The first lieutenant was quite as much interested in
ascertaining the destination of the Bronx as the commander. Christy had
invited him to his cabin.

"Midnight is rather an odd time for the opening of the envelope
containing the orders," said Mr. Flint, as he seated himself at the
table. "But I suppose it was chosen for a purpose."

"Undoubtedly; headed to the south-west the ship would be off the passes
of the Mississippi at eight bells in the forenoon. If we are sent to
Lake Pontchartrain or Ship Island, we should be a long way off our
course at that time," added Christy, as he broke the seal of the
envelope. "Neither Lake Pontchartrain nor the Mississippi. We are
ordered to Barataria Bay, where a steamer is loading with cotton."

"I did not believe a little vessel like the Bronx would be sent up
the river," said Mr. Flint, when the commander had read the paper.
"Barataria Bay--that locality is noted for something in history, isn't
it, captain?"

"Perhaps you have never read 'Lafitte, the Pirate of the Gulf;' but this
bay was his famous resort," said Christy, smiling. "It was formerly
quite as noted as a resort for smugglers, and Lafitte was more a
smuggler than a pirate in this region. He was six feet two inches in
height, a well educated and handsome man, so that he was a first-class
hero for a novel of the dime class," added Christy.

"I believe your late passenger in the cabin knows something about
Barataria Bay and its surroundings, for I think I heard the Russian say
that he had done some smuggling in this quarter," said Mr. Flint. "As
you are doubtless aware, by a series of lakes, bayous, and a canal which
comes out near Carrollton, just above New Orleans, water communication
is open to the Mississippi River for small vessels."

"Do you say that Captain Flanger has been a smuggler in these waters?"

"I think the Russian said so."

"In that case, probably Mike was with him, and he may be a useful man to
us as a pilot," replied Christy. "The commodore says the Western Gulf
squadron had no steamer that was suitable for this service, for there is
only nine feet of water on the bar of Barataria at low water. For this
reason he had been requested to send the Bronx, not only on account of
her light draft, but of her speed."

The commander read his orders through. It was believed that vessels were
loading with cotton there, towed down in flatboats by small steamers,
and that a steamer of four hundred tons was fitting out in the bay as a
privateer. It might not be practicable for the Bronx to go into the bay;
but she was to do what she could to capture the cotton vessels and the
steamer when they came out.

Mr. Flint went to his stateroom, and turned in; but Christy spread his
chart of the Gulf of Mexico, and using his parallel ruler, he found that
the present course of the Bronx would take her to the Pass  Loutre, the
most northerly entrance of the Mississippi River. He went to the bridge
at once, and directed the officer of the deck to make the course
south-west by south. Everything was going well on deck, and Mr. Pennant
had proved that he was a competent officer.

By this time the commander began to feel that sleep was a necessity for
him, for he had hardly rested at all the night before, and he turned in
at two bells. He dropped asleep almost instantly, and did not wake
till he heard eight bells in the morning. It was quite light in his
stateroom, and he realized that it was eight o'clock, instead of four,
as he at first supposed.

Dressing himself hastily, Christy hastened on deck, and to the bridge,
where he found Mr. Flint, who informed him that the Bronx was off the
South Pass of the Mississippi. The fleet of the flag-officer of the
Western Gulf squadron had gone up the river, with the exception of a
single vessel, which had not been able to get over the bar. There were a
few sail in sight.

"We are all right on the course, Mr. Flint; now make it west," said
Christy to the executive officer; and then went to his cabin for his
breakfast, directing the officer of the deck to report to him when the
steamer was off the South West Pass.

When he had finished his morning meal, he proceeded to study his
chart again. He had never been to the westward of the mouths of the
Mississippi; but he had a chart of the entrance to Barataria Bay. He
examined it with the greatest care, and made himself familiar with the
bearings and distances. In about an hour after he left the deck, a
messenger came to the door of the cabin to inform him that the South
West Pass was in sight, bearing due north.

"Make the course west north-west," said he to the first lieutenant,
as he joined him on the bridge.

"West north-west, sir," repeated the executive officer, as he gave it to
the quartermaster at the wheel.

"We shall soon be where our operations begin; but I am afraid we are to
have a lazy time of it," added Christy, as soon as the vessel's head had
been pointed in the direction indicated.

"Why so, Captain Passford?" asked Mr. Flint.

"Barataria Bay makes a big hole in the State of Louisiana, and most of
it is shoal water. At the south of it is the Isle Grande Terre, on the
western end of which is a fort, which commands the entire channel,"
replied the captain.

"That's bad," added Mr. Flint, shaking his head.

"I have no idea of its strength; but I do not care to have the Bronx
knocked to pieces by the big guns of a fort. The bar of Barataria and
the shoal water of the entrance to the bay extend out about two miles
into the Gulf. At low water, two miles from the fort, we should bury our
keel in the mud. It looks just now as though we should have to put the
Bronx under the guns of the fort, or simply blockade the entrance to the
bay. That makes it look like a quiet time in these waters."

"Of course the Confederates on the lower Mississippi are using all their
resources to strengthen Fort Jackson and Fort St. Philip; and they can
make a better use of big guns and artillerymen than in defending an
opening like this one," replied Mr. Flint.

"This is not a cotton-growing region, but is given up to sugar raising,"
added Christy. "They have to bring the cotton a long distance in order
to ship it here."

"For these reasons, I do not believe this fort is of much account."

"Perhaps not; but I should not care to have the Bronx sunk by a
columbiad in the attempt to find out the strength of the fort."

"It is possible that the Russian knows something about this region,"
suggested Mr. Flint.

"I will have a talk with him," replied the commander, as he left the
bridge.

Seating himself on the quarter-deck, he sent for Michael Bornhoff, who
presently reported to him. This man had proved himself to be entirely
faithful and reliable; and Christy had no doubts in regard to his
loyalty, for his race guaranteed that.

"Do you know where we are bound, Mike?" asked Christy.

"I know what all the crew know, for word has been passed around that we
are bound to Barataria Bay," replied the Russian with a cheerful smile.

"Were you ever there, Mike?"

"Was I ever there, captain? I lived there a year!" exclaimed the
contraband. "I was in the fishing business at that time," he added with
a significant smile on his face.

"What do you mean by that?"

"We had the Magnolia over here then, and I used to go out fishing in her
about every night," chuckled Mike. "Sometimes I did not catch any fish,
and sometimes I caught five hundred boxes of Havana cigars. I often
caught other kinds of fish."

"You did not always eat the fish you caught," suggested Christy.

"No, sir; but I used to drink some of them."

"Precisely so; West India rum and wines."

"Cigars mostly, sir, was the kind of fish we caught. Captain Flanger
brought them outside the Grand Pass: I took them up to Fort Lafitte,
and the captain's brother worked them into New Orleans and other places.
They did a big business before the custom-house folks broke it up."

"Very likely; and I dare say you know all about this region."

"No doubt of that, sir."

"What do you know about the fort?"

"Not much, captain, for in our business we did not have anything to do
with forts and such things," chuckled Mike. "The old quarters of the
mechanics and laborers used to be on the Gulf shore, but they moved them
up north of the fort, on the Grand Pass. About a mile east of the fort
there is a big plantation."

"That is all for the present, Mike," added Christy.

The contraband touched his cap, for he had been rigged out in a new
suit of seaman's clothes. The commander retired to his cabin, and again
devoted himself to the study of the chart of the locality. His first
purpose must be to obtain accurate information in regard to the strength
of the fort, and the position of the steamer, if there were such a craft
in the bay. He decided to approach the entrance by the East Channel,
though it would not be possible for the Bronx to reach the Grand Pass
from that direction, for there were hardly more than six feet of water
at low tide; and the rise and fall was less than a foot and a half.

He had decided upon his method of operations, and then wished again that
he was not in command of the steamer; for the expedition he intended to
send out was one he would have been glad to command in person, instead
of remaining inactive on board of the Bronx. As soon as he had arranged
his plan, he went on deck. To the astonishment of the first lieutenant,
he changed the course of the steamer to the north, and at noon let go
the anchor in four fathoms of water. The vessel remained there till it
was dark, and then proceeded to the westward, sounding all the time.




CHAPTER XXVIII

THE NEGRO VILLAGE ON THE ISLE GRANDE TERRE


The commander of the Bronx had explained his plan to the first
lieutenant. There was nothing especially perilous in the expedition to
be sent out; and it was the policy of Christy to keep the steamer out of
sight of the fort, and of those in the immediate vicinity of it. After
the Bronx had been on her course about two hours, and four bells had
just struck, the leadsman reported two fathoms. A little later eleven
feet was the depth.

"Quartermaster, strike one bell," said Christy.

"One bell, sir," repeated the petty officer at the wheel.

"Ten feet!" shouted the man at the lead.

"Strike three bells," added the commander; and the steamer began to back
her screw.

As soon as the Bronx had lost her headway, the screw was stopped, and
a drift lead was dropped into the water. A sharp lookout had been kept,
and some flickering lights had been reported. The weather had become
cloudy since noon, but there was no fog and no wind.

"You will let Mr. Pennant command this expedition, Mr. Flint," said
Christy. "He will take the first cutter, with ten men, including
Quartermaster Vincent and Bornhoff."

The third lieutenant was sent for, and his instructions were given to
him. Mike would be his pilot, and could give him such information as he
required in regard to the locality. He was to land in some convenient
locality, cross the island on foot at the plantation, to Fort Lafitte,
distant less than a mile, and ascertain if there were a steamer or other
vessels in the bay. He was also instructed to use all means in his power
to ascertain the strength of the fort. He was to make a landing about
half a mile west of the plantation buildings.

Within the limits of these instructions, he was to act on his own
judgment. Mike was sent for, and further information in regard to the
course was obtained from him. The officer was cautioned to be prudent,
and not fall into any traps. If he discovered that there was a steamer
in the bay, and that the fort was not heavily armed, he was to burn a
red roman candle as a signal to the Bronx, which would proceed to the
southward, and then enter the Grand Pass by the deepest water.

"Where are the negro quarters of this plantation, Mike?" asked Mr.
Pennant.

"Just west of the big house, sir," replied the Russian.

"I don't know exactly where we are now, Captain Passford," said the
officer of the expedition.

"We lie about south of what Mike calls the big house, a mile and a half
distant from it. Make the boat's course north north-west, and you will
strike the shore about half way between the planter's house and the
fort. But when you get near enough to see both of them, you can land
where you think best," Christy explained.

The boat's crew had already lowered the first cutter into the water. The
oars were muffled, for the chances were that no one in the vicinity of
the plantation had discovered the presence of the Bronx, and it was not
advisable to alarm the people. Vincent acted as cockswain of the boat,
while the Russian, as most of the officers and men insisted upon calling
him, was seated in the stern sheets with the third lieutenant. The eight
men at the oars formed the rest of the crew.

"I don't believe you will find many hands down here, Mr. Pennant," said
Mike in a whisper.

"What do you mean by hands?" asked the officer.

"Laborers, niggers," replied the Russian.

"Why not?"

"I expect they have sent all the strong ones up to work on the
fortifications."

"Shall we find no one at the negro quarters?" asked the lieutenant with
interest.

"Only the women and the old hands, too old to do much work."

"Can you make out where you are, Mike?" inquired Mr. Pennant, after
about half a mile had been made.

"I can just see the fort and the big house. It is not so very dark
to-night," answered the Russian.

The course was believed to be correct for the point indicated by the
captain, and in less than half an hour the boat grounded; but the shore
was bold enough to enable the men to land. Mr. Pennant went to the
forward part of the boat and took a careful look all around him. All was
as silent as a tomb. Stepping into the fore-sheets, he leaped on shore,
directing the Russian to follow him.

"Vincent, you will remain in charge of the boat and the men," said the
third lieutenant, addressing the quartermaster. "I will explore the
island with Mike. I have the fireworks with me, and you will keep a
sharp lookout in the direction of the fort. If you see a light close to
the water, make for it as fast as you can. Do you understand me?"

"Perfectly, Mr. Pennant."

"But you need not expect any signal for a couple of hours, or even
three. If we get into trouble, we shall retreat upon the boat direct;
so keep your eyes wide open."

The officer led the way up the shore, and the rows of sugar-cane
extended almost to the water. They could make out the little village of
negro cabins which lay between them and the planter's house, and they
directed their steps towards it. It was but a short walk, and they soon
reached the lane that extended between the rows of huts.

The lieutenant took his two revolvers from his hip pockets, and examined
them as well as he could in the dark, and Mike did the same, for it was
necessary to be prepared for whatever might happen. The village was as
silent as though it were entirely deserted; but it was nearly midnight,
and doubtless they were asleep in the cabins. They entered one. It was
still and dark within the house. Mr. Pennant had brought with him a
small lantern, which he lighted where the glare of the match could not
be seen; but it revealed nothing to the inquirers.

Covering the lantern so that its light could not be seen, they followed
the lane between the two rows of cabins for some distance farther, and
then entered another. Like the first, it was deserted. They crossed to
the other side of the avenue, where they saw some signs that the cabin
was inhabited. Uncovering his lantern, Mr. Pennant threw the light upon
the interior. It contained two beds, and each of them was occupied by
two persons. In one were two silvered heads to be seen, while the other
displayed two heads that appeared to belong to women.

"Shut the door, Mike," said the officer, in order to prevent the light
from being seen.

"I think I know one of the old men," added the Russian as he returned
from the door, "Shall I wake him up?"

"Yes; but don't frighten him," replied Mr. Pennant.

"Uncle Job," said Mike, placing his hand on the shoulder of the sleeper
on the side of the bed nearest to him.

The head and hair of the old colored man were peculiar enough to enable
the Russian to identify him if he had ever seen him even once before.
His mouth was twisted to one side either naturally or by some injury,
and his kinky hair made him look as though he carried a great bale of
cotton on the top of his head. He opened his eyes when Mike shook him
gently, and looked at the two men at the side of his bed with a
wondering rather than an alarmed expression.

"Who dar?" inquired the negro.

"Good-morning, Uncle Job," replied Mike, taking the hand of the aged
colored person. "How is your health?"

"Don't hab no healf, massa," replied Job, gazing earnestly at the
intruder upon his slumbers.

"Don't you know me, Uncle Job?"

"'Pears like I do; I reckon you's Massa Cap'n Flanger."

"Not exactly; but I'm his man, Mike Bornhoff."

"Jes' so; you was born ob de debbil," replied the old negro, rising in
his bed, and showing all his remaining teeth in an expansive smile.

"He remembers me," said Mike turning to the lieutenant. "We have struck
the right man. But he don't mean that I am any wickeder than the rest of
the world. I used to be called here by my last name, and Job invented
the pun he has just used."

"Why do you say that we have struck the right man, Mike?" asked Mr.
Pennant, caring little for the former relations of the two men.

"Because, though he don't look it, he is the best posted nigger in these
parts. He is the wise man among his people, and a sort of leader among
them, and fetich man besides."

"All right; get him up if you can. Is he able to walk?"

"He is as tough as a he-bear, and can walk a hundred miles on a
stretch," replied Mike. "He knows everything that is going on in these
times."

The lieutenant had covered his lantern, for he did not wish to wake the
other sleepers in the cabin, after the description the Russian had given
of his man. Mike spoke in a low tone to him, and it did not take him
long to make his toilet, for he slept just as he was clothed during
the day. No one knew how old he was, but he was still brisk in his
movements. The officer led the way to one of the deserted cabins at a
considerable distance from the one occupied by Uncle Job.

No one was stirring in the vicinity, and the silence was as profound
as death itself. Not a word was said till they reached the cabin the
officer had selected, and when they had entered, he closed the door
behind them. The lantern was unveiled, and the lieutenant seated himself
upon a block of timber, of which there were several in the room.

"Now, Uncle Job, I want you to answer some questions," Mr. Pennant
began.

"'Pose I don't answer 'em?" suggested the negro.

"Then I shall put you in irons, and take you on board of the steamer,"
added the officer sternly.

"De steamer! wot's de steamer? Is't a Yankee gumboat?" demanded Uncle
Job, opening his eyes with wonder and astonishment.

"That's just what it is."

"Den I gib you all de answers you want," replied the negro with a
cheerful smile. "Whar de gumboat?"

"She is off the shore not far from here. Now you will answer my
questions. There is a fort here?"

"Yes, sar; ober dar," he replied, pointing to the west.

"How many men are there at the fort?"

"Only twenty, sar; all gone ober to New Orleans, sar."

"How many guns has it? I mean big guns, Uncle Job?"

"I done count only four ob dem w'en I was dar last time."

"Only four!" exclaimed Mr. Pennant. "Are you telling me the truth, Uncle
Job?"

"I neber spoke noffin but the truf, Massa Ossifer."

"Are those four very large,--long as this cabin is wide?" asked the
lieutenant with interest.

"No, sar!" exclaimed Job with energy.

"But they must have had very big guns."

"Yes, sar; but dey done tote 'em all ober to de Mis'sip Riber."

This seemed to be reasonable to the lieutenant, and in accordance
with the belief of his superiors on board of the Bronx, for no Union
man-of-war of any size could pass through the water courses to the great
river. It looked as though the big guns had been replaced with those of
smaller calibre.

Mr. Pennant put out the light in his lantern, and the party started to
cross the island.




CHAPTER XXIX

A PROFESSIONAL VISIT TO THE FORT


Mr. Pennant had some doubts about the correctness of the important
information he had obtained, but he was at a loss to know how to verify
it. It was a matter of course that sentinels patrolled the vicinity of
the fort, or at least the principal approach to it. He decided to
postpone his inquiry into this matter till a later hour of the night or
morning.

"Whar you gwine, Massa Ossifer?" asked Uncle Job, after they had walked
a short distance from the negro village.

"Over to the other side of the island," replied the lieutenant.

"Wot you gwine to do ober dar, massa?"

"I want to see what there is over there."

"Dis nigger kin told you wot dar is over dar."

"Well, what is there over there?"

"Dar's a steamer ober dar, an' I speck de Yankee gumboat's gwine in
dar to look arter dat steamer," said Uncle Job, chuckling as though he
enjoyed the prospect of such an event. "Say, Massa Ossifer, is Massa
Linkum in yore gumboat?"

"Not exactly; but she is well filled with his people," replied Mr.
Pennant, laughing.

"I done wish dat Massa Linkum come down here hisself," added the
venerable colored person.

"He can hardly spare the time to do that; his business is such that he
cannot leave," replied the lieutenant, much amused at the simplicity of
the negro. "Now tell me something more about this steamer in the bay.
How big is she?"

"I can't told you 'zackly, massa; she as big as de fort."

"Where did she come from?" asked the lieutenant, who had more confidence
in the honesty than in the intelligence of Job.

"I dunno, massa; but she done come in from de sea. When she git off dar
two mile she done stick in de mud," answered the negro, pointing in the
direction of the bar. "Den de little steamers from up the bay take off
de loadin', and she done come in."

"With what was she loaded?"

"All sorts o' tings, massa; guns, and pistols, and close. Dis nigger
help take de tings out ob her."

"What is she doing now in the bay?"

"Loadin' wid cotton de steamers fotch down."

"Where does she lie now?"

"Jes' off de ole Fort Lafitte, whar de water's deep."

In less than half an hour the party reached the locality indicated by
Job. The officer could see the steamer which looked, in the gloom of the
night, as though she was a craft of about five hundred tons. She was
moored in the deep water so far in that she could not be seen by vessels
in the offing. On each side of her was a small river steamer, and she
seemed not to have completed her cargo.

"Do you know the name of that steamer, Uncle Job," inquired Mr. Pennant.

"Yes, sar; I knows it like my own name, but I can't spoke it if I die
for't," answered Job, laughing.

"Try to do so."

"No use, Massa Ossifer; dis nigger don't hab teef enough to do dat."

"Can't you spell it?"

"No, sar; can't spell noffin."

But Job was very obliging, and he made a hissing sound, followed by an
effort to sneeze which was a failure. Then he hissed some more, though
the loss of his front teeth interfered with the effort. Then he said
"fing."

"I know what he means," interposed the Russian. "I know that steamer,
for she came in at Cedar Keys when I was there. He means the Sphinx."

"Dat's it, Massa Ossifer!" exclaimed Job, apparently delighted to find
that he had made himself understood.

"Has she any big guns?"

"Yes, sar; she done h'ist two out ob her innards, and done took two more
from de fort."

"All right; I think we understand the situation up here," said Mr.
Pennant, as he led the way in the direction from which they had come.

They returned to the negro village, for the commander of the expedition
did not feel as though he had yet finished his mission on shore.

"Mind yore eye, Massa Gumboat!" exclaimed Job, in a low tone, but with
great earnestness.

"Dar's somebody comin' from de fort! He's comin' mighty quick shore."

The negro hurried the officer and Mike into one of the cabins, and
shoved them into a sort of closet, while he went to the door himself. He
passed out into the lane, as the man came into it from the middle of the
field, for he had not been near enough to the shore to discover the
boat.

"Who dar?" called Job.

"Soldier from the fort," replied the man. "What are you doing out here
at this time of night?"

"I done get sick, massa, and I's gwine up to de big house to see de
doctor," replied the negro, who probably used the first excuse that came
into his head.

"The doctor!" exclaimed the soldier. "Is there a doctor there?"

"I reckon dar's one dar if he done habn't leabe yisterday."

"Then you can do my errand for me," added the soldier.

"Yes, sar; what's dat, massa?"

"One of our men is very sick, and we have no doctor. We are afraid he
will die before morning, and we want a doctor. Ours was ordered off a
week ago."

"I go for de doctor if he's dar," said Job.

"Very well; I will go back and tell the sick man the doctor's coming,"
added the soldier. "That will give him a hope, if nothing more."

"Dis nigger's 'feered de doctor done gone away."

"If he isn't there, we can't have him; but hurry up, Uncle Job, and come
over and tell us if he isn't there," said the soldier, as he hurried
away as rapidly as he came, evidently believing that hope was a panacea
to a sick man.

As the soldier did not offer to come into the cabin, Mr. Pennant had
come out of his hiding-place, and had heard all that was said by the
soldier, even while he was in concealment.

"Is there any doctor at the big house?" asked the lieutenant as soon as
Job entered the house.

"No, sar; all de family done leave, an' was gwine to New Orleans. Arter
a while I go to de fort and tell de sodgers the doctor done gone,"
replied Job.

"I will go with you, Uncle Job," added Mr. Pennant quietly.

"You, Massa Gumboat!" cried the negro. "De sodgers put de bagonet frou
your crop like a knife frou a pullet's froat!"

"Not if you tell them I am the doctor," added the lieutenant.

"De doctor! Be you a doctor, sar?"

"I have done something in the business, and perhaps I can cure the man
who is sick, if they have the proper medicine," added the officer.

"Dey hab de medicine at de big house."

"Can you get into it?"

"Yes, sar; de oberseer's sick abed, and dis nigger go right in like
massa hisself," replied Job, as he led the way in the direction of the
planter's house.

The Russian was sent to the boat to await the return of the lieutenant;
but he was instructed not to open his mouth to his shipmates in regard
to what had been done on the island. Job found a way to get into the big
house, and conducted the officer to the dispensary, where he had so
often gone for remedies for his ailments. He found what he wanted, and
then he felt reasonably certain that he should make a success of his
professional visit to the soldier. He took several small bottles of
medicines in addition to the particular one upon which he depended.

Job conducted him to the fort, which was over a mile distant. The
lieutenant was not dressed in his uniform with the shoulder straps,
though he had procured one from the store ship at the station; but he
had adjusted his garments to the needs of the occasion, so that, if
captured he could hardly be recognized as a Union officer. But he had
his navy revolvers in his hip pockets, though they were covered by the
skirts of the frock coat he wore, for he had borrowed this garment of
the surgeon.

At the principal entrance of the fort they were challenged by the
sentinel. Mr. Pennant was somewhat afraid his northern dialect would
betray him, for he was not a highly educated man, though he was
exceedingly well informed in all matters pertaining to the duties of
a shipmaster.

"Stand! Who comes there?" said the sentinel.

"Friends," replied the lieutenant.

"Advance, friends, and give the countersign!"

"We have no countersign to give."

"Who are you?" demanded the soldier.

"Dr. Waterton," answered Mr. Pennant, giving the first name that came
into his head, for the medical title was the essential thing.

"All right, doctor; I have been directed to admit you. Pass in, sir."

Job was familiar with the interior of the fort, and he led the way; but
before they had crossed the parade, the soldier who had gone for the
doctor came to them, and conducted them to a casemate, where the sick
soldier was still suffering terrible pains.

"Lieutenant Fourchon, this is the doctor; but I do not know his name,"
said the soldier.

"Dr. Waterton," added Mr. Pennant.

"I am glad to see you, Dr. Waterton, for I have exhausted all my
remedies," said Lieutenant Fourchon. "I was not born to be a doctor.
The patient seems to be no better."

"It does not look like a very bad case," added the doctor, finding it
necessary to say something, as he felt the pulse of the sufferer.

Though the lieutenant of the Bronx was not a physician, he was not
altogether a pretender, for in the capacity of mate and temporary
commander, he had done duty in the healing art in the absence of a more
skilful person.

"A glass of water and a teaspoon," said he to the soldier-nurse; and
they were promptly brought to him.

The doctor took from his pocket a small bottle of chloroform he had
obtained from the big house, and dropped a quantity of it into the
teaspoon. Mixing it with a little water in a glass, he gave it to the
patient, who swallowed it quickly in spite of its burning taste.

"Now a piece of flannel," added the doctor.

Upon this when it was brought he dropped a quantity of the chloroform,
and applied it to the seat of the pain. In a moment the soldier cried
out against the burning heat of the remedy; but the practitioner
insisted that it should remain a while longer. But he relieved him of
it in a short time.

"How do you feel?" asked the doctor.

"Better; a great deal better," replied the patient.

In fact, in less than an hour he said he was entirely relieved from the
severe pain. He was very grateful to the doctor, whom no one suspected
of being a Yankee gunboat officer.

"I had the same thing once before, and I was sure I should die with it
this time," said the sick soldier, "It lasted me all night and part of
the next day the other time."

"I am afraid you did not have a very skilful doctor at that time,"
replied the practitioner with a smile.

Lieutenant Fourchon pressed the hand of the doctor, and left the
casemate with him.




CHAPTER XXX

THE ATTACK UPON THE FORT


The Confederate officer was evidently of French descent; at any rate, he
was very polite. He expressed his obligations to the supposed physician
for the service he had rendered in very earnest terms. Mr. Pennant had
been able to see that there were no guns in the casemates of the fort,
and this was really all he wanted to know.

"All your guns seem to be mounted outside," said the naval officer as he
halted on the parade.

"Yes, sir; most of the guns have been removed to points where they can
be used to greater advantage than here. The few we have are twenty-four
pounders, mounted _en barbette_," replied Lieutenant Fourchon. "The fort
is practically abandoned; and in a short time will be entirely so, for
the enemy's ships of war can do no harm here, and there is not water
enough above to permit their passage into the Mississippi."

"But the fort can protect your vessels in the bay," suggested the
lieutenant of the Bronx.

"The shoal water is the best protection for the small steamers that ply
on these inside waters; and the Yankee gunboats can take all others as
they come out. The entrance to the bay has not been regularly blockaded,
for there has been little occasion to do so thus far."

Mr. Pennant had learned all he wanted to know, and from the parade he
could see even in the darkness that only four guns were mounted on the
works. He began to feel in a hurry to carry out the remainder of the
programme assigned to him. He took the hand of the Confederate officer
when he reached the point where Uncle Job was waiting for him, bade him
good-morning, and left the fort.

"How's de sick man, Massa Gumboat?" asked the old negro, chuckling as
though he appreciated the stroke of strategy made by his companion.

"He is better; in fact, he was about well when I left him," replied
the practitioner. "But I have no more time to waste," added he, as he
quickened his pace, moving in the direction of the shore.

The day was beginning to break in the east, and he was afraid the
commander of the Bronx would become uneasy in regard to him. The
quarters of the soldiers were passed, though they were not in use, and
the shore reached. The lieutenant thanked the guide for the service he
had rendered, and told him he could go back to his cabin, and finish his
night's sleep.

"No, sar; see you frou, Massa Gumboat," replied Job.

"Do you wish to leave this place, Uncle Job?" asked the officer.

"No, sar; I want to be free, but I'm not gwine away, I want to see de
gumboat."

"You shall see it, and go on board of it if you wish; but we may have a
battle with the fort."

"Don't care for de fight, sar; Job isn't 'feered o' noffin'."

It was less than halt a mile to the cutter, and they soon reached it.
The Russian was standing on the shore, and most of the men were asleep
on the thwarts, though Vincent was wide awake. Mike recognized the form
of the old negro, and reported that the lieutenant was coming.

"Now burn your roman candle, and let us get off as soon as possible,"
said Mr. Pennant. "Bowman, help this man to a seat in the stern sheets;"
and he assisted Uncle Job to get in himself.

The men passed him along over the thwarts, and seated him in the stern.
Vincent burned the red candle himself, and it cast a fiery glare over
the scene, which must have astonished the occupants of the fort if they
saw it. As soon as it had burned out, the quartermaster leaped over the
stem of the cutter, and made his way to the stern, where he jumped over
the backboard, and took his place at the tiller ropes. The cutter was
backed off the ground, and out into the deeper water.

"Up oars! Let fall!" said Mr. Pennant. "Stern, all! Give way!"

The cutter backed rapidly from the shore, and was then brought about.
The lieutenant stood up in his place, and could just distinguish the
Bronx, a mile and a half distant, in the gloom of the early morning. He
watched her a few minutes and soon saw her swing around, and head to the
south-east.

"Make the course about south, Vincent," said the officer, as soon as he
discovered that the steamer was in motion.

"South, sir," replied the quartermaster.

"Now, give way with a will, my men!" called Mr. Pennant in brisk tones,
"for we shall soon have a twenty-four pound shot chasing us out."

When the cutter was about half a mile from the shore, making it about
three-quarters of a mile from the fort, the peal of a cannon was heard,
and a puff of smoke could be seen as it rose on the clear, starred sky,
for the clouds had rolled away during the night. The shot dropped into
the water a short distance abreast of the cutter.

"Good!" exclaimed Mr. Pennant; and this was the first time he had ever
been under fire, though he had imagined it enough to feel entirely at
home.

Another shot followed the first, and dropped into the water; and if it
had gone fifty feet farther, it would have struck the boat.

"Good again!" exclaimed the lieutenant. "I think that is about the range
of those guns."

A third shot fell a little nearer the cutter; but it was evident enough
that it was out of the reach of the feeble guns of the fort. The firing
continued but a few minutes longer, for it was as plain to Lieutenant
Fourchon as to Lieutenant Pennant that the shots were harmless to the
boat. The commander on shore could see by this time, if he had not
before, that a gunboat was in the offing, and that he might soon have
a better use for his powder than wasting it upon the boat.

The lieutenant had closely watched the movements of the Bronx. He had
made the signal that the fort was not very dangerous to the well-being
of the gunboat, and he understood her present movement. The light was
increasing, and the Bronx could be distinctly seen, headed to the
south-east, or in other words, making for the deep water outside the
bar. Mr. Pennant still kept the cutter headed to the south.

The steamer went off till she looked very much smaller, and then changed
her course to the south-west. The lieutenant in the cutter ordered the
bowman to sound with the small hand lead, after he had brought the boat
to a full stop. The man reported eight feet. The head of the boat was
then turned to the west, and the crew ordered to give way. In a quarter
of an hour more the course was checked, and the bowman directed to sound
again. Sixteen feet was reported.

Mr. Pennant stood up in the stern sheets, and gazed in the direction of
the fort. On the shore of the Grand Pass, above the fort, were three
buildings, formerly occupied by mechanics and laborers. The sailing
directions for entering the bay were to bring the fronts of these
structures in range, and proceed for a time on the course indicated.
Mr. Pennant had obtained this bearing after he had backed the boat a few
feet. The depth of water then informed him that he was in the channel.

But he had no intention of again approaching the fort, and he headed the
boat to the south-east, or nearly so, and then ordered the men to give
way. He called the attention of the coxswain to the range, and directed
him to keep it. The bowman was required to keep the lead going all the
time.

"Ten and a half feet!" reported the bowman.

"That is the shoalest we shall get," added the officer.

The crew had been ordered to ease off, and the cutter moved very slowly.
A quarter of an hour later the sounding was ten and three-quarters feet.
The next report was fourteen feet, and then no bottom at twenty feet.
The Bronx was approaching the boat with full steam, and stopped her
screw a short distance from the cutter. In a few moments more the boat
was at the davits, and the commander of the expedition reported to
Captain Passford.

"What have you here, Mr. Pennant?" asked the commander with a smile,
as he pointed to Uncle Job, who seemed to be as bashful as a young girl,
and utterly confounded by what he saw on the deck of the Bronx.

"That is Uncle Job, Captain Passford," replied the lieutenant. "He has
been of very great service to me, and he enables me to make a very full
report to you, sir. This is the captain of the gunboat, Uncle Job," he
added to the negro.

The old man had no hat to touch or take off, for the mass of hair was a
sufficient protection to his head; but he bowed almost to the deck, and
was too timid to say a single word.

"I am very glad to see you, Uncle Job," said Christy, taking the hand of
the venerable colored person. "I thank you for the service rendered to
my officer. Now, Mr. Pennant, you will come to my cabin and make your
report. Bring Uncle Job with you."

As soon as he reached the cabin, Christy brought from his stateroom
twenty dollars in gold, which he presented to the old negro, who
accepted the gift with many thanks.

"Dave," called the captain.

"Here, sir," replied the steward, coming into the cabin and gazing with
astonishment at the negro. "This man has done a good work; take care of
him, give him a good breakfast, and see that no one insults him."

As soon as the steward had taken him to the steerage, Mr. Pennant
made his report in full, even to the number and calibre of the guns at
the fort, and including the cure he had wrought upon the Confederate
soldier. Christy was amused at this last part of the narrative; but he
had no time to waste in conversation.

The screw of the Bronx was started again. Though the Russian was a pilot
over the bar, his services were not needed as such. The first cutter had
kept the range of the buildings on the island, and Mr. Flint had already
picked it up. The steamer proceeded at less than half speed, but the
tide was at its highest. By this time it was seven o'clock in the
morning, for a great deal of the time had been used up in moving the
cutter and the steamer. Breakfast had been served to all hands, and
Christy had fortified his stomach for a busy forenoon. As the Bronx
proceeded on her course, the lead going all the time, making not more
than two knots an hour, the report of a gun was heard from the fort.

"They are awake there," said Christy with a smile to the first
lieutenant, and both of them watched for the fall of the shot, which
struck the water at least a quarter of a mile ahead of the vessel. "Beat
to quarters, Mr. Flint."

The strength of the Bronx was mainly in her heavy midship gun. The
commander had ascertained the range of the twenty-four pounder barbette
guns of the fort, and made his calculations accordingly. He could batter
down the masonry of the works at his leisure, if he chose to waste his
time and ammunition in that way; but the Confederates proposed to
abandon the fort, and it would not pay to destroy it.

"Fourteen and a half feet!" shouted the leadsman.

"That will do, Mr. Flint; stop her, and let go the anchor. Get out a
spring astern and make it fast to that buoy," said the commander.

In ten minutes more the Bronx quivered under the discharge of the great
midship gun, and a cloud of smoke rose above her deck.

"Good for you, Mr. Ambleton!" exclaimed Christy, a few seconds later,
when he saw the wreck of one of the twenty-four pounders on the fort.

This result was followed by emphatic cheers from the forty-five men on
deck.

"I can do that again, Captain Passford," replied the gunner, who was in
charge of the piece.

"Do it, then," added Christy.

He did not do quite as well every time, but in two hours there was not a
gun in place on the barbette of the fort.




CHAPTER XXXI

A WOUNDED COMMANDER


The fort had become harmless so far as the use of its guns was
concerned; but the channel of the Grand Pass was hardly a quarter of a
mile in width, and even twenty soldiers with muskets could pick off the
men on the deck of the Bronx. Christy's orders required him to capture
the steamer that was fitting out in the bay, and he intended to do it.
The order to weigh the anchor and cast off the spring was given, and the
commander sent for the chief engineer.

"We are within a mile of the fort, Mr. Sampson, and I mean to run by it.
We shall be exposed to the fire of musketry for about half a mile, and
the quicker we make this distance, the less the danger to the men," said
the commander, when the engineer presented himself. "We will not get
under way till you have all the steam you need to give the steamer her
best speed."

"I understand the situation perfectly, Captain Passford, and I will
report when we are ready to go ahead in the manner you desire," replied
Mr. Sampson, as he saluted the captain and hastened below.

"The officer in command of that fort is not idle," said Mr. Flint, who
had been using his glass very industriously since the firing ceased.
"The soldiers are busy setting up the guns again, or some of them."

"We will soon stop that," added Christy. "Give them another shot from
the midship gun, Mr. Flint."

The gunner was again fortunate in his aim, and it was seen that the
solid shot cleaned off the carriage upon which the soldiers were at
work. With the aid of the glass it was found that two of the men had
been killed or wounded. The work on that gun was suspended, but the
officer could be seen in the act of directing his force to another of
the barbette pieces.

"That lieutenant is a brave man," said Mr. Pennant, "and I know he is a
gentleman."

"I am only sorry that he is fighting on the wrong side," added Christy,
as he observed the earnestness of the officer in the discharge of his
duty. "Is he an old man?"

"No, sir; I don't believe he is over twenty, if he is that," replied the
third lieutenant.

Another solid shot sped on its way, and Mr. Ambleton, the gunner, fully
justified the reputation he had earned, though the missile only ploughed
up the earth in front of the party on the fort. But then Lieutenant
Fourchon proved that he was a wise and a prudent man, as well as a brave
one, for he retreated from the exposed position with his men. It was
almost sure death for them to remain there, for they could not help
seeing the cloud of smoke that rose from the funnel of the Bronx,
indicating her intention to go up the Pass.

"Mr. Sampson directs me to report that he is ready to proceed," said a
messenger from the chief engineer.

Quartermaster Vincent was placed in charge of the wheel, with Boxie as
helmsman. All that could be done to protect the pilot-house had been
done, though it was not yet supposed to be proof against the musket ball
that would be fired in that direction. All the men not absolutely needed
for duty were sent below, but they were armed with revolvers and
cutlasses, ready for service at any instant. The officers retired from
the bridge, for it was folly for any one to be unnecessarily exposed to
the musketry fire from the loopholes of the fort.

"Strike one bell, Vincent!" said Mr. Flint, when the captain had given
him the order to go ahead.

The steamer went ahead slowly; but the steam was hissing, and she seemed
to be as impatient as a fiery horse at the slow starting.

"Four bells, Mr. Flint!" added the commander when the Bronx was fairly
under way.

The order went to the quartermaster, and the vessel began to dart ahead
as though she fully realized what was expected of her. There was nothing
to impede her progress, for the fort was as silent as though it had
ceased to exist. A trusty hand was heaving the lead in the fore-chains,
for the Bronx was not yet within musket-shot range of the island.

"Mark under water three!" shouted the leadsman, with an earnestness
inspired by the occasion.

Christy planked the deck with Mr. Flint just abaft the foremast. Both of
them were as cool and self-possessed as though they had been sitting at
the cabin-table; but neither of them felt that the battle had been won,
for the officer in command of the fort was evidently a man of ability,
who had not yet exhausted his resources. The first lieutenant had
watched the works very closely with his glass, and he had informed the
captain that something was in progress there, though he could not tell
what it was.

Christy certainly felt very anxious, and he could not help asking
himself whether or not he was engaged in a foolhardy enterprise in
attacking the fort. His orders related only to the steamer that was
loading in the bay, and he had been warned in his instructions to take
the fort into consideration in his operations. He felt that he had given
proper attention to the fort, inasmuch as he had disabled all its guns.
He might have simply blockaded the entrance to the Pass; but he might
have stayed in the offing a month before she ventured to come out. He
was still willing to believe that he had not overstepped his orders.

"And a quarter three!" cried the leadsman.

"Make the course north-west, Mr. Flint," said Christy, following the
sailing directions with a proper allowance for the tide. "No more
sounding; send the man below. We shall have from three to seven fathoms
of water till we have passed the fort."

The Bronx continued to dart ahead at her best speed, and no sound came
from the fort. It was only a question of minutes now before the steamer
reached a point inside of the island where she could accomplish her
mission by the capture of the Sphinx. The officers remained on deck, but
they were protected by the bulwarks, the masts, and especially under the
shelter of the top-gallant forecastle. Christy had earnestly warned the
second and third lieutenants not to expose themselves needlessly to the
musketry of the fort, and Mr. Flint was discreet enough to need no such
warning.

"Soldiers on the fort, sir!" shouted Vincent, when the Bronx was within
less than a quarter of a mile of the works.

Christy and the first lieutenant sprang from the shelter where they had
been waiting the passage of the fort, and rushed up the steps to the
bridge. The commander of the force on shore, with half a dozen men, was
at work on one of the guns on the barbette; but it was impossible to
make out what they were doing. Then there was a flash, a cloud of
smoke went up, and a shot crashed into the deck directly under the
pilot-house, tearing up the planks, and disappearing in the space below.

"Wheel disabled, sir!" shouted the quartermaster.

"Beat to quarters, Mr. Flint!" said Christy, trying to make out what
mischief had been done by the shot; but he could only see that it had
cut the wheel ropes.

"Strike two bells, Vincent!" he called to the quartermaster.

By this time the executive officer had beat the crew to quarters, and
every man was at his station.

"Strike three bells, Vincent," continued the commander. "Mr. Flint, open
fire upon the fort with the midship gun. Have the carpenter report at
once on the damage done by that shot. Strike two bells, Vincent."

It was plain enough to all the officers and men that the commander
knew what to do in the emergency, and every one was energetic in the
discharge of his duty. Mr. Ambleton was fully alive to the peril of the
moment, and he was careful to make his aim sure with the great gun. It
had been loaded before with a solid shot, and presently the steamer was
shaken to her keel by the concussion of its discharge.

Christy was still on the bridge, and he watched with intense interest
the effect of the shot. In a moment he saw the carriage of the only gun
that seemed to be mounted on the barbette flying in pieces in every
direction. He directed the gunner to use a shell next time; but the
soldiers had hastened away from the place, bearing with them two of
their companions, doubtless wounded by the splinters.

"Let go the anchor, Mr. Flint!" shouted Christy.

This was done under the direction of Mr. Camden. A fresh breeze had
sprung up from the north-west, and the Bronx came up to the cable still
headed in the direction of her former course. The carpenter reported
that the shot had passed out at the side between decks, and that he had
plugged the hole. The third lieutenant was busy rigging new wheel ropes,
which he said would be ready in half an hour. Mr. Flint, at the order
of the captain, had manned the broadside guns, and loaded them with
shrapnel, for the most perilous part of the enterprise was yet to come.

The fort was silent. It was evident now that the commander of the little
garrison had not left the barbette before till he had prepared at least
one of his guns for further service; but it had again been disabled, and
it was not known on board of the steamer whether or not he had any other
gun fit for use. It was presumed that he had not, for the Bronx was
within easy cannon shot of his works. Christy used the glass, but could
not discover any gun that appeared to be mounted.

"All ready, Mr. Flint," reported the third lieutenant, when he had
completed the repairs on the steering gear.

The first lieutenant inspected the work, and reported to the captain,
who immediately ordered him to weigh the anchor. The chief engineer had
been directed to be ready to proceed, and the steam was hissing with a
merry music. The midship gun was of no service now, and Mr. Flint had
been directed to keep up a steady fire with the broadside guns at the
embrasures of the fort as soon as the Bronx was in range.

Again the steamer darted ahead at a speed which would soon carry her
beyond the reach of the musket ball of the soldiers. Christy still
remained upon the bridge, observing the fort and all that was done on
the deck of the Bronx. He directed his glass frequently at the barbette
of the fort; but the prudent commander of the garrison had evidently
concluded to confine his efforts to the casemates. At least one-fourth
of his men had been disabled.

"Open with the broadside guns, Mr. Flint!" called Christy, as the Bronx
came abreast of the works.

As he spoke, Boxie dropped in his place at the wheel, and Vincent
grasped the spokes. The blood was streaming down the face of the old
man, and he did not move after he fell. Two sailors bore him below; but
the surgeon promptly declared that he was dead.

The rattle of musketry became quite sharp, and the bullets were
penetrating the bulwarks. Two had been wounded at one of the guns, and
carried below. Christy stepped over to the end of the bridge to call a
hand to take the place of Boxie, and at that moment he felt a sharp
sting, as it were, in his right arm, above the elbow. Involuntarily he
raised his hand to the place, and felt the warm blood oozing from the
wound. It produced a momentary faintness; but he braced himself up, and
wound his handkerchief around his arm, calling upon the wheelman to tie
it, as he hastened to the aid of Vincent. He said not a word about the
accident.

The Bronx dashed upon her course, and in a moment more she was out of
the reach of the balls from the muskets. Half a mile farther up the
Pass, the captain ordered Vincent to strike two bells. The Sphinx was
in sight, not half a mile distant, with a small steamer on each side of
her. Doubtless her captain had full confidence in the ability of the
fort to protect his vessel, and he continued his operations as though he
was in no possible danger.

"Mr. Flint, send Mr. Camden in the first cutter and Mr. Pennant in the
second to take possession of that steamer," said Christy, holding on at
the rail in front of him. "Put fifteen men well armed into each boat,
and send the second engineer with them. Hurry them off, or they may burn
the vessel."

The two boats were soon in the water, though the first lieutenant
wondered that he had not been sent on this important service. The two
officers hurried their crews, and the boats flew on their mission. The
commander felt that it was necessary to keep an eye on the fort, for its
energetic officer was not at all inclined to be idle at the present
exciting time. The Bronx had hardly stopped her screw before the
soldiers were to be seen on the barbette; but the shell with which
the midship gun had been charged sent them all to the casemates in an
instant.

"What is the matter, Captain Passford?" asked the first lieutenant,
as he halted on the deck. "You are as pale as a ghost."

"A ball went through my arm; but it is all right," replied Christy with
a ghastly smile.

He refused to go below, or to permit Dr. Connelly to come to him until
he had attended to the poor fellows who had been wounded on deck.

At the end of a couple of hours, the flames arose from the two bay
steamers which had been alongside the Sphinx, for the second lieutenant
had been ordered to burn them. The smoke was pouring out of the two
smoke-stacks of the steamer. Several boats filled with men pulled to the
shore, landing the crews of the three vessels. In less than another hour
the Sphinx was under way, and soon came alongside the Bronx.

As only one of the broadsides of the gunboat was available in the action
with the fort, the starboard battery was transferred to the captured
vessel. Men enough to handle them were put on board, and Mr. Camden was
put in command of her. It was late in the afternoon when all this work
had been done, and then the Bronx led the way through the Pass, her
mission fully accomplished.

As soon as the steamer was abreast of the fort, the broadside guns
poured the shrapnel into the embrasures and loopholes, though nothing
could be known of the effect of the firing. The muskets were as active
as before. Christy was on the bridge still, for the doctor had dressed
his wound, and he had taken some refreshment.

This time it was discovered that the vigorous commander of the garrison
had dug out some rifle-pits on the top of his works, and his men were
doing effective work with their muskets. Three men had been wounded on
the deck of the Bronx, the third lieutenant being one of them. Christy
shouted to Mr. Flint, ordering him to send the men below, and cease
the use of the broadside guns, for the garrison were on the barbette,
sheltered by their earth-works, where the guns could not reach them,
so high was their position.

With the aid of his speaking trumpet he gave the same order to Mr.
Camden on board of the Sphinx; but he had hardly uttered the command
before his left leg gave way under him, and he sunk to the floor of the
bridge. A ball had struck him in the thigh, and he could feel the blood
flowing down his limb. He grasped the rail of the bridge, and drew
himself up. There he stood like a statue, supporting himself with his
well arm, till the Bronx had passed out of musket-shot range.

"Good heavens!" exclaimed the first lieutenant, as he came out from his
shelter. "You are wounded again!"

"I must give up now, I fear," replied Christy feebly; and then he
fainted.

  [Illustration: Christy Receives a Second Wound.--Page 358.]

He was carried to his stateroom by his officers, and the doctor examined
his last wound. He was restored to consciousness, but he looked like
death itself beneath the ruddy brown of his weather-beaten face.

"You will take the command now, Mr. Flint," said he when he saw the
executive officer watching him with the most intense interest. "What do
you think of it, Dr. Connelly?" he asked, turning to the surgeon.

"Severe, but not dangerous," answered the doctor. "The ball did not
touch the bone, but it ploughed deep through the flesh. You were
fortunate in having plenty of meat on your bones."

Dave was the most assiduous of nurses, and had no little skill in
attending to the wants of the sick. The young commander was made
comfortable in a few hours, and Mr. Flint came below to see him at
the end of an hour when he had performed his most pressing duties. He
reported that Mr. Pennant's wound was slight, and did not disable him.
Eight seamen in all had been wounded, and one of them was likely to die
of his injury.

"But we have done our work well, Captain Passford, and I don't believe
that one-half the garrison of that fort are fit for duty at this
moment," added the first lieutenant.

"But that was a splendid fellow who commanded there," continued Christy
with admiration. "If his guns had not been taken away from him, and his
force reduced to a handful of men, we should have had to wait for the
Sphinx to come out of the bay; and it might have been three weeks or a
month before she concluded to do so."

"We have damaged the enemy enough to make it pay, and the steamer and
her cargo will put at least seventy-five thousand dollars into the
pockets of our side in the conflict."

"And by taking the bull by the horns, instead of waiting till the
captain of the Sphinx concluded to take his chances of being captured
in getting to sea, we have made the Bronx available for duty at once in
another quarter, where she can do better work than in chewing her cable
off the bar of Barataria," said the wounded commander, thus satisfying
his conscience that he had done his duty.

The venerable colored man, who had given so much assistance and
information to the third lieutenant on shore, had no desire to leave his
home, and he was landed in the darkness of the evening at a considerable
distance from the fort. Christy had rewarded him handsomely for the
service he had rendered. The men in the first and second cutters had
taken all the cotton in the small steamers, and put it on board of the
Sphinx before they set them on fire. The four guns in the hold had been
hoisted out to make room for the bales, and the vessel had been put in
condition for her voyage.

Early in the evening, the two steamers were standing out into the Gulf
headed to the south-east. In the middle of the afternoon of the next
day, Mr. Flint reported to the flag-officer off Pensacola Bay. The
wounded captain was as comfortable as a young man could be with two
bullet-holes in his limbs. It was the first time he had been wounded so
as to disable him; but he felt that he had faithfully done his duty to
his country, and he was as cheerful as a man in his condition could be.
Dr. Connelly reported that he would not be fit for service again for six
or eight weeks.

Mr. Pennant, the third lieutenant, on account of his wound, which was
not severe enough to render him unfit for ordinary duty, was appointed
prize-master of the Sphinx, with orders to report at New York for
condemnation. A furlough was given to Christy, with a stateroom on board
of the captured steamer. She was fitted out so that she could defend
herself, or even capture any vessel of the enemy within her reach, and
not too strong for her. She was not as fast as the Bronx, but she had
logged over twelve knots on the passage from Barataria Bay, and was
therefore likely to be added to the force of the navy.

Ensign Flint was appointed to the command of the Bronx by the
flag-officer, who had called upon Captain Passford in his stateroom.
Christy had not failed to commend his executive officer in the highest
terms. The commodore suggested that Christy could not be very kindly
disposed towards Captain Battleton of the Vernon, on account of his
decision against him in the matter of his identity.

"On the contrary, I do not see how he could have done otherwise,
commodore, and I have expressed to him my friendly feeling," replied
Christy. "I think he is a devoted and faithful officer, sir."

  [Illustration: Dave Receives his Appointment as Steward.--Page 364.]

"He desires employment on more active duty than the command of a
store-ship, and I am instructed to give him such a position if I have
one at my disposal," added the flag-officer.

"I certainly hope you will do so, sir, if possible."

"I propose to appoint him executive officer of the Bronx."

"I am sure Mr. Flint could not have a better man."

In due time this appointment was made, and Captain Flint, on the
recommendation of Christy, was entirely satisfied to receive him as
his first lieutenant.

"One thing more, Captain Passford," continued the flag-officer; "the
ship's steward of the Mercidita has been very sick for three weeks, and
has applied for a sick-leave. I shall be obliged to transfer Mr. Nawood
of the Bronx to his place."

"I can mention just the right person to take Mr. Nawood's place," said
Christy eagerly.

"You seem to have a man ready for every vacant position. Who is he?"
asked the commodore with a pleasant smile.

"His name is David Davis; but he is not a relative of the president of
the Southern Confederacy, for he is a mulatto. He has rendered very
important service on several occasions, and there is not a truer or
braver man on board of the Bronx, or any other ship of the squadron,"
replied Christy with enthusiasm.

The commodore shook his head, but he looked very good-natured. Christy
narrated the part Dave had taken in the capture of Captain Flanger in
the cabin, and in recovering possession of the Bronx when it was shown
that the officers were rebels. Mr. Flint was sent for. He was quite as
earnest in his plea for the steward as the commander had been, and the
written appointment of Mr. David Davis was in Christy's hands when the
flag-officer took his leave of the wounded commander.

"Dave," said the wounded lieutenant, the next time the steward came into
the room, "no more 'massa,' no more 'moggywompus,' no more 'done do it.'
You know better than to use such expressions, and you are no longer a
'nigger;' you are the ship's steward of the Bronx."

"What's that, Captain Passford?" demanded Dave, opening his eyes like a
pair of saucers.

Christy handed him the appointment just made, and the steward danced
about like a madman. He had expected nothing for his meritorious
service, and he found himself in a position of trust and responsibility.
He expressed his gratitude in the most earnest language, and without
using a single objectionable phrase, for his education was better than
his habit in the use of speech.

Ensign McLinn, who had served on board of the little steamer, but had
recently been on sick leave, was appointed second lieutenant of the
Bronx, while Mr. Camden, outranked by the other officers, remained as
third lieutenant. Christy and Mr. Pennant were transferred to the
Sphinx, with a prize crew; and that same evening the Bronx sailed under
her new commander, with sealed orders, to the eastward.

The Sphinx sailed the next day for New York, and made a tolerably quick
passage. Of course Christy was received with open arms by the family at
Bonnydale, and with a profusion of blushes by Bertha Pembroke, who
happened to be there on a visit. His father and mother looked with
no little anxiety at the pale face of their son, though he was still
cheerful and happy. He had lost a portion of his flesh, and his uniform
hung rather loosely upon him.

He was too feeble from the effects of his wounds, for that in the thigh
had proved to be more severe than the surgeons had indicated, to tell
the exciting story of the escapade of Corny Passford; but when he did
relate it, three weeks later, it thrilled the listeners for three whole
evenings.

"You took the bull by the horns at an opportune moment, my son," said
Captain Passford, Senior. "If you had not done so you would have been in
a rebel prison at this moment. As it is, poor Corny has got back to Fort
Lafayette, with Galvinne and our man-servant, whom I never should have
suspected of being a Confederate officer."

"I don't think I care to go to the Gulf again as the commander of a
vessel," added Christy, who had not changed his mind on this subject.

"Why not, my son?"

"I don't like the responsibility, in the first place, and the
inactivity, in the second. When I am forty or fifty years old, I shall
like a command better. Others seem to look upon me now as a boy, capable
of any sort of quixotism, however prudent I may be, and point at me as
one who has been made a commander of a steamer by influence at court.
There is a vacancy at the present time on board of the Bellevite, for
the second lieutenant will be compelled to resign on account of his
health."

This matter was fully discussed during the next two months; and at the
end of that time the young lieutenant was again in condition for duty.
Both Mr. Camden and Mr. Pennant obtained the appointment of ensign on
the strength of his reports. Christy was as earnest as ever in his
desire to Stand by the Union; he was ordered to the Bellevite as second
lieutenant, and, after three months' absence, went to the Gulf again,
where we shall find him once more, both on sea and shore, Fighting for
the Right.




Lee and Shepard's

  STAR JUVENILES

    With New and Attractive Dies.

MESSRS. LEE AND SHEPARD announce a new edition of this fine line of
  12mo Juveniles, consisting of books by KELLOGG, KINGSTON, BALLANTYNE,
  HEADLEY, and others. Printed on a fine quality of paper, fully
  illustrated, and bound in polished buckram cloth, at $1.00 per volume.
  Liberal discount for quantities.


By ELIJAH KELLOGG.

  Lion Ben of Elm Island.
  Charlie Bell; The Waif of Elm Island.
  The Ark of Elm Island.
  The Boy Farmers of Elm Island.
  The Young Shipbuilders of Elm Island.
  The Hardscrabble of Elm Island.
  Sowed by the Wind; or, The Poor Boy's Fortune.
  Wolf Run; or, The Boys of the Wilderness.
  Brought to the Front; or, The Young Defenders.
  The Mission of Black Rifle; or, On the Trail.
  Forest Glen; or, The Mohawk's Friendship.
  Burning the Hatchet; or, The Young Brave of the Delawares.
  A Strong Arm and a Mother's Blessing.
  The Unseen Hand; or, James Renfew and his Boy Helpers.
  The Live Oak Boys; or, The Adventures of Richard Constable
      Afloat and Ashore.
  Arthur Brown, the Young Captain.
  The Young Deliverers of Pleasant Cove.
  The Cruise of the Casco.
  The Child of the Island Glen.
  John Godsoe's Legacy.
  The Fisher Boys of Pleasant Cove.
  A Stout Heart; or, The Student from Over the Sea.
  A Spark of Genius; or, The College Life of James Trafton.
  The Sophomores of Radcliffe; or, James Trafton and his
      Boston Friends.
  The Whispering Pine; or, The Graduates of Radcliffe.
  The Turning of the Tide; or, Radcliffe Rich and his Patients.
  Winning his Spurs; or, Henry Morton's First Trial.


By P. C. HEADLEY.

  Fight it out on this Line; The Life and Deeds of Gen. U. S.
      Grant.
  Facing the Enemy; The Life of Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman.
  Fighting Phil; The Life of Lieut.-Gen. Philip Henry Sheridan.
  Old Salamander; The Life of Admiral David Glascoe Farragut.
  The Miner Boy and his Monitor; The Career of John Ericsson,
      Engineer.
  Old Stars; The Life of Major-Gen. Ormsby McKnight Mitchel.


By GEORGE MAKEPEACE TOWLE.

  Heroes and Martyrs of Invention.
  Vasco da Gama; His Voyages and Adventures.
  Pizarro; His Adventures and Conquests.
  Magellan; or, The First Voyage Round the World.
  Marco Polo; His Travels and Adventures.
  Raleigh; His Voyages and Adventures.
  Drake; The Sea King of Devon.


By CAPT. CHARLES W. HALL.

  Adrift in the Ice Fields.


By DR. ISAAC I. HAYES.

  Cast Away in the Cold; An Old Man's Story of a Young Man's
      Adventures.


By W. H. G. KINGSTON.

  The Adventures of Dick Onslow among the Redskins.
  Ernest Bracebridge; or, School Boy Days.


By JAMES D. McCABE JR.

  Planting the Wilderness; or, The Pioneer Boys.


By DR. C. H. PEARSON.

  The Cabin on the Prairie.
  The Young Pioneers of the Northwest.


By JAMES DE MILLE.

  The Lily and the Cross; A Tale of Acadia.


By F. G. ARMSTRONG.

  The Young Middy; or, The Perilous Adventures of a Boy Officer.


By R. M. BALLANTYNE.

  The Life Boat; A Tale of Our Coast Heroes.


  _Sent by mail, postpaid, on receipt of price._

    LEE AND SHEPARD, PUBLISHERS, BOSTON


_J. T. Trowbridge's Books._


THE TIDE-MILL STORIES

Six Volumes. Handsomely Illustrated. Per Vol., $1.25.

  THE TINKHAM BROTHERS' TIDE-MILL
  PHIL AND HIS FRIENDS
  THE SATIN-WOOD BOX
  THE LITTLE MASTER
  HIS ONE FAULT
  PETER BUDSTONE

  "The more stories Mr. Trowbridge can write, the better for the boys
  of this generation. Flooded as our country is with literature of a
  dime-novel order, we have need of just such safe and interesting
  books as 'The Little Master,' 'Phil and His Friends,' 'Bound in
  Honor,' etc., to put into the hands of our growing boys."--_Living
    Church_.

  "Mr. Trowbridge's humor, his fidelity to nature and story-telling
  power, lose nothing with years, and he stands at the head of those
  who are furnishing a literature for the young, clean and sweet in
  tone, and always of interest and value."--_The Continent_.


SILVER MEDAL STORIES

Six Volumes. Handsomely Illustrated. Per Vol., $1.25.

  THE SILVER MEDAL
  HIS OWN MASTER
  BOUND IN HONOR
  THE POCKET-RIFLE
  THE JOLLY ROVER
  YOUNG JOE AND OTHER BOYS

  "If every boy could read these stories, or have them read to him,
  there would be fewer rogues in the world. Straightforward, honest
  stories, without cant, without moralizing, full of genuine fun and
  hard common sense, they are just the tales that are needed to make
  a young fellow fall in love with simple integrity and fair dealing.
  They are noble contributions to juvenile literature."--_Woman's
  Journal_.

  "Mr. Trowbridge has a good perception of character, which he draws
  with skill; he has abundance of invention, which he never abuses;
  and he has, what so many American writers have not, an easy, graceful
  style, which can be humorous, or pathetic, or poetic."--_R. H.
  Stoddard in N.Y. Mail_.


START IN LIFE STORIES

Four Volumes. Handsomely Illustrated. Per Vol., $1.00.

  A START IN LIFE
  BIDING HIS TIME
  THE KELP-GATHERERS
  THE SCARLET TANAGER

  "No better or more pleasing writer for young folks than Mr.
  Trowbridge can be found. He draws his characters true to life,
  concealing no faults, and exaggerating no virtues, but paints each
  in their own lights and shadows so vividly that to avoid the one and
  imitate the other must be the natural impulse of all boys and girls
  who read his most excellent and fascinating stories."--_San Jos
  Mercury_.

  Every boy of our acquaintance likes the books by Trowbridge. Every
  young girl ought to enjoy them, also, for they are wholesome, true
  to nature and human nature, and full of good sentiment. His stories
  are always interesting, sometimes thrilling, and often they contain
  much information, either of history or natural history.


The TOBY TRAFFORD SERIES

Handsomely Illustrated

Per volume  $1.25

  The Fortunes of Toby Trafford
  Father Brighthopes
  Woodie Thorpe's Pilgrimage And other Stories

  To see life as it is, and depict it by easy and truthful touches,
  is a high attainment. Mr. Trowbridge has abundantly vindicated his
  claim to a place among the writers to whom readers attribute the
  grace and power of naturalness. "Woodie Thorpe's Pilgrimage,"
  "Uncle Caleb's Roan Colt," "Lost on the Tide," etc., are all stories
  of deep interest, which one will follow with attention. The book
  does not preach, but conveys some salutary lessons.

  There is many and many a volume written for boys, but they are not
  all alike beneficial; therefore the standard writers, to which class
  belongs Mr. Trowbridge, may undisputably claim a kingdom whose
  reigning motto is manliness.


    LEE AND SHEPARD Publishers BOSTON

       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *

Errata Noted by Transcriber:

Invisible punctuation-- chiefly quotation marks-- has been silently
supplied. The spelling "cockswain" is standard for this text. The
variation between "knots" and "knots an hour" is as in the original.

[Table of Contents]
CHAPTER XXIII.
  _text reads "XIII."_

certain irregular enterprizes
  _spelling as in original_

"I think I shall go on deck and see the fun, if there is any, and turn
in if there is none," added Christy.
  _so in original: should read "Corny"_

The lamp on gimbols was lighted
  _spelling as in original_

One who can believe that would swallow Baron Munchausen
  _spelling as in original_

and our mission may be up Lake Pontchartrain
  _text reads "Ponchartrain"_

[Advertising]
The Young Middy; or, The Perilous Adventures of a Boy Officer.
  _text reads "Avdentures"_





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Stand By The Union, by Oliver Optic

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK STAND BY THE UNION ***

***** This file should be named 18816-8.txt or 18816-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/1/8/8/1/18816/

Produced by Louise Hope, David Garcia, Juliet Sutherland
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Kentuckiana Digital
Library)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


Produced by Louise Hope, David Garcia, Juliet Sutherland
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Kentuckiana Digital
Library)





THE BLUE AND THE GRAY--AFLOAT

Two colors cloth  Emblematic Dies  Illustrated
Price per volume $1.50

  TAKEN BY THE ENEMY
  WITHIN THE ENEMY'S LINES
  ON THE BLOCKADE
  STAND BY THE UNION
  FIGHTING FOR THE RIGHT
  A VICTORIOUS UNION

THE BLUE AND THE GRAY--ON LAND

Two colors cloth  Emblematic Dies  Illustrated
Price per volume $1.50

  BROTHER AGAINST BROTHER
  IN THE SADDLE
  A LIEUTENANT AT EIGHTEEN
  ON THE STAFF
  AT THE FRONT
  AN UNDIVIDED UNION

Any Volume Sold Separately

Lee and Shepard Publishers  Boston




  [Illustration:
  "Christy seized him by the collar with both hands." Page 75.]




                      The

               BLUE AND THE GRAY

                     Series

                 [Illustration]

                By Oliver Optic

             FIGHTING FOR THE RIGHT




         _The Blue and the Gray Series_

             FIGHTING FOR THE RIGHT

                       by

                  OLIVER OPTIC

                   Author of
"The Army and Navy Series" "Young America Abroad"
"The Great Western Series" "The Woodville Stories"
"The Starry Flag Series" "The Boat-Club Series"
"The Onward and Upward Series" "The Yacht-Club Series"
"The Lake Shore Series" "The Riverdale Stories"
"The Boat-Builder Series" "Taken by the Enemy"
"Within the Enemy's Lines" "On the Blockade"
"Stand by the Union" "A Missing Million"
"A Millionaire at Sixteen" etc., etc., etc.


                     BOSTON
          LEE AND SHEPARD Publishers


       Copyright, 1892 by Lee and Shepard
             _All Rights Reserved_

             Fighting for the Right


       Type-Setting and Electrotyping by
           C. J. Peters & Son, Boston




                       To

                My Grand Nephew

              RICHARD LABAN ADAMS

                   This Book

          Is Affectionately Dedicated




PREFACE


"FIGHTING FOR THE RIGHT" is the fifth and last but one of "The Blue and
the Gray Series." The character of the operations in connection with the
war of the Rebellion, and the incidents in which the interest of the
young reader will be concentrated, are somewhat different from most of
those detailed in the preceding volumes of the series, though they all
have the same patriotic tendency, and are carried out with the same
devotion to the welfare of the nation as those which deal almost solely
in deeds of arms.

Although the soldiers and sailors of the army and navy of the Union won
all the honors gained in the field of battle or on the decks of the
national ships, and deserved all the laurels they gathered by their
skill and bravery in the trying days when the republic was in peril,
they were not the only actors in the greatest strife of the nineteenth
century. Not all the labor of "saving the Union" was done in the
trenches, on the march, on the gun deck of a man-of-war, or in other
military and naval operations, though without these the efforts of all
others would have been in vain. Thousands of men and women who never
"smelled gunpowder," who never heard the booming cannon, or the rattling
musketry, who never witnessed a battle on sea or land, but who kept
their minds and hearts in touch with the holy cause, labored diligently
and faithfully to support and sustain the soldiers and sailors at the
front.

If all those who fought no battles are not honored like the leaders and
commanders in the loyal cause, if they wear no laurels on their brows,
if no monuments are erected to transmit their memory to posterity, if
their names and deeds are not recorded in the Valhalla of the redeemed
nation, they ought not to be disregarded and ignored. It was not on the
field of strife alone in the South that the battle was fought and won.
The army and the navy needed a moral, as well as a material support,
which was cheerfully rendered by the great army of the people who never
buckled on a sword, or shouldered a musket. Their work can not be summed
up in deeds, for there was little or nothing that was brilliant and
dazzling in their career. They need no monuments; but their work was
necessary to the final and glorious result of the most terrible war of
modern times.

No apology is necessary for placing the hero of the story and his
skilful associate in a position at a distance from the actual field of
battle. They were working for the salvation of the Union as effectively
as they could have done in the din of the strife. They were "Fighting
for the Right," as they understood it, though it is not treason to say,
thirty years later, that the people of the South were as sincere as
those of the North; and they could hardly have fought and suffered to
the extent they did if it had been otherwise.

The incidents of the volume are more various than in the preceding
stories, which were so largely a repetition of battle scenes; but the
hero is still as earnest as ever in the cause he loves. He attains a
high position without any ambition to win it; for, like millions of
others who gave the best years of their lives to sustain the Union, who
suffered the most terrible hardships and privations, so many hundreds of
thousands giving their lives to their country, Christy fought and
labored for the cause, and not from any personal ambition. It is the
young man's high character, his devotion to duty, rather than the
incidents and adventures in which he is engaged, that render him worthy
of respect, and deserving of the honors that were bestowed upon him. The
younger participants in the war of the Rebellion, Christy Passford among
the number, are beginning to be grizzled with the snows of fifty
winters; but they are still rejoicing in "A Victorious Union."

  William T. Adams.

    Dorchester, April 18, 1892.




CONTENTS

                                              Page
CHAPTER I.
A Conference at Bonnydale                       15

CHAPTER II.
A Complicated Case                              26

CHAPTER III.
The Departure of the Chateaugay                 37

CHAPTER IV.
Monsieur Gilfleur explains                      48

CHAPTER V.
An Abundance of Evidence                        59

CHAPTER VI.
The Boarding of the Ionian                      70

CHAPTER VII.
A Bold Proposition                              81

CHAPTER VIII.
A Notable Expedition                            92

CHAPTER IX.
The Frenchman in Bermuda                       103

CHAPTER X.
Important Information obtained                 114

CHAPTER XI.
An Unexpected Rencontre                        125

CHAPTER XII.
As Impracticable Scheme                        136

CHAPTER XIII.
At the End of the Chase                        147

CHAPTER XIV.
An Easy Victory                                158

CHAPTER XV.
The Gentleman with a Grizzly Beard             169

CHAPTER XVI.
Among the Bahamas                              180

CHAPTER XVII.
The Landing at New Providence                  191

CHAPTER XVIII.
An Affray in Nassau                            202

CHAPTER XIX.
An Old Acquaintance                            213

CHAPTER XX.
A Band of Ruffians                             224

CHAPTER XXI.
A Question of Neutrality                       235

CHAPTER XXII.
On Board of the Snapper                        246

CHAPTER XXIII.
The Chateaugay in the Distance                 257

CHAPTER XXIV.
The Tables turned                              268

CHAPTER XXV.
Captain Flanger in Irons                       279

CHAPTER XXVI.
A Visit to Tampa Bay                           290

CHAPTER XXVII.
Among the Keys of Tampa                        302

CHAPTER XXVIII.
The Surrender of the Reindeer                  313

CHAPTER XXIX.
Bringing out the Prize                         324

CHAPTER XXX.
A Very Important Service                       335

CHAPTER XXXI.
An Undesired Promotion                         346




FIGHTING FOR THE RIGHT




CHAPTER I

A CONFERENCE AT BONNYDALE


"Well, Christy, how do you feel this morning?" asked Captain Passford,
one bright morning in April, at Bonnydale on the Hudson, the residence
of the former owner of the Bellevite, which he had presented to the
government.

"Quite well, father; I think I never felt any better in all my life,"
replied Lieutenant Passford, of the United States Navy, recently
commander of the little gunboat Bronx, on board of which he had been
severely wounded in an action with a Confederate fort in Louisiana.

"Do you feel any soreness at the wound in your arm?" inquired the
devoted parent with some anxiety.

"Not a particle, father."

"Or at the one in your thigh?"

"Not the slightest bit of soreness. In fact, I have been ready to return
to my duty at any time within the last month," replied Christy very
cheerfully. "It would be a shame for me to loiter around home any
longer, when I am as able to plank the deck as I ever was. In truth,
I think I am better and stronger than ever before, for I have had a long
rest."

"Your vacation has been none too long, for you were considerably run
down, the doctor said, in addition to your two wounds," added Captain
Passford, senior; for the young man had held a command, and was entitled
to the same honorary title as his father.

"These doctors sometimes make you think you are sicker than you really
are," said Christy with a laugh.

"But your doctor did not do so, for your mother and I both thought you
were rather run out by your labors in the Gulf."

"If I was, I am all right now. Do I look like a sick one? I weigh more
than I ever did before in my life."

"Your mother has taken excellent care of you, and you certainly look
larger and stronger than when you went to sea in the Bronx."

"But I am very tired of this inactive life. I have been assigned to the
Bellevite as second lieutenant, a position I prefer to a command, for
the reasons I have several times given you, father."

"I am certainly very glad to have you returned to the Bellevite, though
the honors will be easier with you than they were when you were the
commander of the Bronx."

"But I shall escape the responsibility of the command, and avoid being
pointed at as one who commands by official influence," said Christy,
rather warmly; for he felt that he had done his duty with the utmost
fidelity, and it was not pleasant to have his hard-earned honors
discounted by flings at his father's influence with the government.

"It is impossible to escape the sneers of the discontented, and there
are always plenty of such in the navy and the army. But, Christy, you
wrong yourself in taking any notice of such flings, for they have never
been thrown directly at you, if at all. You are over-sensitive, and you
have not correctly interpreted what your superiors have said to you,"
said Captain Passford seriously.

His father recalled some of the conversations between the young officer
and Captain Blowitt and others, reported to him before. He insisted that
the remarks of his superiors were highly complimentary to him, and that
he had no right to take offence at them.

"I dare say I am entirely wrong, father; but it will do me no harm to
serve in a subordinate capacity," added Christy.

"I agree with you here; but I must tell you again, as I have half a
dozen times before, that I never asked a position or promotion for you
at the Navy Department. You have won your honors and your advancement
yourself," continued the father.

"Well, it was all the same, father; you have used your time and your
money very freely in the service of the government, as you could not
help doing. I know that I did my duty, and the department promoted me
because I was your son," said Christy, laughing.

"Not at all, my son; you deserved your promotion every time, and if you
had been the son of a wood-chopper in the State of Maine, you would have
been promoted just the same," argued Captain Passford.

"Perhaps I should," answered the young officer rather doubtfully.

"After what you did in your last cruise with the Bronx, a larger and
finer vessel would have been given to you in recognition of the
brilliant service you had rendered," added the father. "I prevented this
from being done simply because you wished to take the position of second
lieutenant on board of the Bellevite."

"Then I thank you for it, father," replied Christy heartily.

"But the department thinks it has lost an able commander," continued the
captain with a smile.

"I am willing to let the department think so, father. All I really ask
of the officials now is to send me back to the Gulf, and to the
Bellevite. I believe you said that I was to go as a passenger in the
Chateaugay."

"I did; and she has been ready for over a week."

"Why don't she go, then?" asked Christy impatiently.

"On her way to the Gulf she is to engage in some special service,"
replied Captain Passford, as he took some letters from his pocket.

"Letters!" exclaimed the young lieutenant, laughing as he recalled some
such missives on two former occasions. "Do you still keep your three
agents in the island of Great Britain?"

"I don't keep them, for they are now in the employ of the government,
though they still report to me, and we use the system adopted some two
years ago."

"What is it this time, father?" asked Christy, his curiosity as well as
his patriotism excited by this time at the prospect of capturing a
Confederate man-of-war, or even a blockade-runner.

"There are traitors in and about the city of New York," answered Captain
Passford, as he returned the letters to his pocket. "We had a rebel in
the house here at one time, you remember, and it is not quite prudent
just now to explain the contents of the letters."

"All right, father; but I suppose you will read them to me before I sail
for the South."

"I will talk to you about it another time," added the captain, as a
knock was heard at the door. "Come in!"

It was the man-servant of the house, and he brought in a tray on which
there was a card, which Captain Passford took.

"Captain Wilford Chantor," the captain read from the card. "Show him in,
Gates. Lieutenant Chantor is appointed to the command of the Chateaugay,
Christy, in which you take passage to the Gulf; but she will not go
there directly."

"Captain Chantor," said Gates, as he opened the door for the visitor.

"I am happy to see you, Captain Chantor, though I have not had the
pleasure of meeting you before," said the captain, as he rose from his
chair, and bowed to the gentleman, who was in the uniform of a
lieutenant.

"I presume I have the honor to address Captain Horatio Passford," said
the visitor, as he took a letter from his pocket, bowing very
respectfully at the same time, and delivering the letter.

"I am very glad to meet you, Captain Chantor," continued Captain
Passford, taking the hand of the visitor. "Allow me to introduce to you
my son, Lieutenant Passford, who will be a passenger on your ship to the
Gulf."

"I am very happy to make your acquaintance, Mr. Passford, for I need
hardly say that I have heard a great deal about you before, and this is
a very unexpected pleasure," replied Captain Chantor.

"Thank you, Captain, and I am equally happy to meet you, as I am to be a
passenger on your ship," added Christy, as they shook hands very
cordially.

"I had three other passengers on board, but they have been transferred
to the store-ship, which sails to-day, and you will be my only
passenger."

"At my suggestion," said Captain Passford smiling, doubtless at the
puzzled expression of the captain of the Chateaugay at his statement.

"I am to attend to some special service on my voyage to the Gulf, and I
am ordered to take my instructions from you," added Captain Chantor.

"Precisely so; but I hold no official position, and your orders will be
put in proper form before you sail," replied Christy's father. "Now, if
you will be patient for a little while, I will explain the nature of the
special service."

"I shall be very glad to understand the subject, and I am confident my
patience will hold out to any extent you may require."

The conversation so far had taken place in the library. The owner of
Bonnydale rose from his arm-chair, opened the door into the hall, and
looked about him very cautiously. Then he closed a window which the
unusual warmth of an April day had rendered it necessary to open. He
conducted his companions to the part of the room farthest from the door,
and seated them on a sofa, while he placed his arm-chair in front of
them. Even Christy thought his father was taking extraordinary
precautions, and the visitor could make nothing of it.

"As I have had occasion to remark before to-day, there are traitors in
and about New York," the captain began.

"If you have any private business with Captain Chantor, father, I am
perfectly willing to retire," suggested Christy.

"No; I wish you to understand this special service, for you may be
called upon to take a hand in it," replied Captain Passford; and the
son seated himself again. "There are traitors in and about New York,
I repeat. I think we need not greatly wonder that some of the English
people persist in attempting to run the blockade at the South, when some
of our own citizens are indirectly concerned in the same occupation."

This seemed to the captain of the Chateaugay an astounding statement,
and not less so to Christy, and neither of them could make anything of
it; but they were silent, concluding that the special service related to
this matter.

"In what I am about to say to you, Captain Chantor, I understand that I
am talking to an officer of the utmost discretion," continued Captain
Passford, "and not a word of it must be repeated to any person on board
of the Chateaugay, and certainly not to any other person whatever."

"I understand you perfectly, sir," replied the officer. "My lips shall
be sealed to all."

"I wish to say that the command of the Chateaugay would have been
offered to my son, but I objected for the reason that he prefers not to
have a command at present," said the captain.

"That makes it very fortunate for me."

"Very true, though the change was not made for your sake. You were
selected for this command as much on account of your discretion as for
your skill and bravery as an officer."

"I consider myself very highly complimented by the selection."

"Now to the point: I have information that a fast steamer, intended to
carry eight guns, called the Ovidio, sailed from the other side of the
ocean some time since, and she is to be a vessel in the Confederate
navy. Her first port will be Nassau, New Providence."

"Does that prove that any Americans are traitors in and about New York,
father?" asked Christy.

"She is to run the blockade with a cargo consisting in part of American
goods."

Captain Passford took a file of papers from his pocket.




CHAPTER II

A COMPLICATED CASE


Captain Passford looked over his papers for a moment; but it was soon
evident from his manner that he had secrets which he would not intrust
even to his son, unless it was necessary to do so. He seemed to be armed
with documentary evidence upon which to act, but he did not read any of
his papers, and soon returned them to his pocket.

"The American goods of which I speak are certain pieces of machinery to
be used in the manufacture of arms," continued the captain. "They cannot
be obtained in England, and the traitors have decided to send them
direct, rather than across the ocean in the first instance. These will
form the principal and most important part of the cargo of a steamer now
loaded, though she will carry other goods, such as the enemy need most
at the present time."

"I did not suppose any Americans were wicked enough to engage in such an
enterprise for the sake of making money," said Christy indignantly.

"The steamer of which you speak is already loaded, is she?" asked
Captain Chantor.

"She is; and now I wish both of you to go with me, and I will point out
the vessel to you, and you must mark her so well that you can identify
her when occasion requires."

The trio left the house and took the train together. They went to New
York, and in an out-of-the-way locality they went down to a wharf; but
there was no steamer or vessel of any kind there, and the pier was
falling to pieces from decay. Captain Passford stopped short, and seemed
to be confounded when he found the dock was not occupied.

"I am afraid we are too late, and that the steamer has sailed on her
mission of destruction," said he, almost overcome by the discovery. "She
was here last night, and was watched till this morning. She has already
cleared, bound to Wilmington, Delaware, with a cargo of old iron."

"Do you know her name, Captain Passford?" asked the commander of the
Chateaugay.

"She was a screw steamer of about six hundred tons, and was called the
Ionian, but she is American."

It was useless to remain there any longer, for the steamer certainly was
not there. Captain Passford hailed a passing-tug-boat, and they were
taken on board. The master of the boat was instructed to steam down the
East River, and the party examined every steamer at anchor or under way.
The tug had nearly reached the Battery before the leader of the trio saw
any vessel that looked like the Ionian. The tug went around this craft,
for she resembled the one which had been in the dock, and the name
indicated was found on her stern.

"I breathe easier, for I was afraid she had given us the slip," said
Captain Passford. "She is evidently all ready to sail."

"The Chateaugay is in commission, and ready to sail at a moment's
notice," added her commander.

"But you are not ready to leave at once, Christy," suggested Captain
Passford, with some anxiety in his expression.

"Yes, I am, father; I put my valises on board yesterday, and when mother
and Florry went down to Mr. Pembroke's I bade them both good-by, for
after I have waited so long for my passage, I felt that the call would
come in a hurry," replied Christy. "I am all ready to go on board of the
Chateaugay at this moment."

"And so am I," added Captain Chantor.

"But I am not ready with your orders in full, though they are duly
signed," said Captain Passford. "I will put you on shore at the foot of
Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn, Captain Chantor, and you will hasten to
your ship, get up steam, and move down to this vicinity. I will put my
son on board as soon as I can have your papers completed."

The order necessary to carry out this procedure was given to the captain
of the tug, and the commander of the Chateaugay was landed at the place
indicated. The tug started for the other side of the river.

"It seems to me this is very strange business, father," said Christy,
as he and his father seated themselves at the stern of the boat.

"Traitors do not work in the daylight, my son, as you have learned
before this time," replied Captain Passford.

"If you know the men who are engaged in supplying the enemy with
machinery, why do you not have them arrested and put in Fort Lafayette?"
asked Christy, in a very low tone, after he had assured himself that no
person was within possible hearing distance. "It looks as though the
case might be settled here, without going to sea to do it."

"We have not sufficient evidence to convict them; and to make arrests
without the means of conviction would be worse than doing nothing. The
Ionian has cleared for Wilmington with a cargo of old iron. Everything
looks regular in regard to her, and I have no doubt there is some party
who would claim the castings if occasion required. The first thing to be
ascertained is whether or not the steamer goes to Wilmington."

"Then we can make short work of her."

"My information in regard to this treason comes from Warnock--you know
who he is?"

"Captain Barnes," replied Christy promptly, for the names of all the
agents of his father in England and Scotland had been given to him on a
former occasion, when the information received from one of the three had
resulted in the capture of the Scotian and the Arran.

"Barnes is a very shrewd man. He does not inform me yet in what manner
he obtained the information that the Ovidio was to carry this machinery
from Nassau into a rebel port; but I shall get it later in a letter. He
gave me the name of the party who was to furnish the machinery; and one
of his agents obtained this from the direction of a letter to New York.
I placed four skilful detectives around this man, who stands well in the
community. They have worked the case admirably, and spotted the Ionian.
I have aided them in all possible ways; but the evidence is not
complete. If this steamer proceeds beyond Wilmington, Captain Chantor
will be instructed to capture her and send her back to New York."

"Then this business will soon be settled," added Christy.

"Perhaps not; the government official, with authority to act, is in New
York. I shall see him at once. I have no doubt the detectives have
already reported that the Ionian has moved down the river," said Captain
Passford, as the tug came up to a pier, where father and son landed.

They went to an office in Battery Place, where the captain was informed
that a special messenger had been sent to Bonnydale to acquaint him with
the fact that the Ionian had moved down the river. Files of documents,
containing reports of detectives and other papers, were examined and
compared, and then the government official proceeded to finish the
filling out of Captain Chantor's orders. The paper was given to Christy,
with an order to deliver it to the commander of the Chateaugay. The tug
had been detained for them, and they hastened on board of her.

They found the suspected steamer at her moorings still; but it was
evident that she was preparing to weigh her anchor. The tug continued on
her course towards the Navy Yard, and the Chateaugay was discovered in
the berth she had occupied for the last two weeks. Everything looked
lively on board of her, as though she were getting ready to heave up her
anchor.

"Christy, you will find on board of your steamer a man by the name of
Gilfleur," said Captain Passford, as the tug approached the man-of-war.

"That sounds like a French name," interposed Christy.

"It is a French name, and the owner of it is a Frenchman who has been a
detective in Paris. He has accomplished more in this matter than all the
others put together, and he will go with you, for you will find in the
commander's instructions that you have more than one thing to do on your
way to the Gulf. I gave him a letter to you."

"I shall be glad to see him."

"Now, my son, we must part, for I have business on shore, and you may
have to sail at any moment," said Captain Passford, as he took the two
hands of his son. "I have no advice to give you except to be prudent,
and on this duty to be especially discreet. That's all--good-by."

They parted, after wringing each other's hands, as they had parted
several times before. They might never meet again in this world, but
both of them subdued their emotion, for they were obeying the high and
solemn call of duty; both of them were fighting for the right, and the
civilian as well as the naval officer felt that it was his duty to lay
down his life for his suffering country. Christy mounted the gangway,
and was received by Captain Chantor on the quarter-deck. He had been on
board before, and had taken possession of his stateroom.

The passenger took from his pocket the files of papers given him by the
official on shore; and then he noticed for the first time an envelope
addressed to him. The commander retired to his cabin to read his
instructions, and Christy went to his stateroom in the ward room to open
the envelope directed to him. As soon as he broke the seal he realized
that his father had done a great deal of writing, and he had no doubt
the paper contained full instructions for him, as well as a history of
the difficult case in which he was to take a part. A paper signed by the
official informed him that he was expected to occupy a sort of advisory
position near the commander of the Chateaugay, though of course he was
in no manner to control him in regard to the management of the ship.

Christy read his father's letter through. The government was exceedingly
anxious to obtain accurate information in regard to the state of affairs
at Nassau, that hot-bed for blockade-runners. The Chateaugay was to look
out for the Ovidio, whose ultimate destination was Mobile, where she was
to convey the gun-making machinery, and such other merchandise as the
traitorous merchant of New York wished to send into the Confederacy. The
name of this man was given to him, and it was believed that papers
signed by him would be found on board of the Ionian.

A knock at the door of his room disturbed his examination of the
documents, and he found the commander of the steamer there. After
looking about the ward room, and into the adjoining staterooms, he came
in without ceremony.

"Here is my hand, Mr. Passford," said he, suiting the action to the
word. "I find after reading my instructions that I am expected to
consult with you, and as I have the very highest respect and regard for
you after the brilliant record you have made"--

"Don't you believe that I won my promotion to my present rank through
the influence of my father?" demanded Christy, laughing pleasantly, as
he took the offered hand and warmly pressed it.

"If you did, your father did the very best thing in the world for his
country, and has given it one of the bravest and best officers in the
service," replied Captain Chantor, still wringing the hand of his
passenger. "But I don't believe anything of the kind; and no officer who
knows you, even if he is thirsting for promotion, believes it. I have
heard a great many of higher rank than either of us speak of you, and if
you had been present your ears would have tingled; but I never heard a
single officer of any rank suggest that you owed your rapid advancement
to anything but your professional skill and your unflinching bravery, as
well as to your absolute and hearty devotion to your country. I rank you
in date, Mr. Passford, but I would give a great deal to have your record
written against my name."

"Your praise is exceedingly profuse, Captain Chantor, but I must believe
you are honest, however unworthy I may be of your unstinted laudation,"
said Christy with his eyes fixed on the floor, and blushing like a
school-girl.

"I hope and believe there will be no discount on our fellowship. A man
came on board this afternoon, and gives me a letter from the proper
authority, referring me to you in regard to his mission."

Christy decided to see this person at once.




CHAPTER III

THE DEPARTURE OF THE CHATEAUGAY


The commander told Christy that he would probably find the person who
had brought the letter to him in the waist, for he knew nothing of his
quality, position, or anything else about him, and he did not know where
to berth him, though there was room enough in the ward room or the
steerage. He was dressed like a gentleman, and brought two very handsome
valises on board with him.

"For all that, I did not know but that he might be a French cook, a
steward, or something of that sort," added Captain Chantor, laughing.

"He is a man who is said to be a Napoleon in his profession; but I will
tell you all about him after we get under way, for I am in a hurry to
speak with him," replied Christy.

"He is evidently a Frenchman," continued the captain.

"He is; but I never saw him in my life, and know nothing about him
except what I have learned from a long letter my father gave me when I
was coming on board."

"I have been told that you speak French like a native of Paris, Mr.
Passford," suggested the commander.

"Not so bad as that; I have studied the language a great deal under
competent instructors from Paris, but I am not so proficient as you may
think, though I can make my way with those who speak it," replied the
passenger, as he moved towards the door of the stateroom.

"And I can't speak the first word of it, for I have been a sailor all my
life, though I went through the naval academy somewhat hurriedly,"
continued the commander.

"Fortunately you don't need French on the quarter-deck;" and Christy
left the stateroom.

The captain went into his cabin, but came out before the passenger could
reach the deck. He informed Christy that he was directed to heave short
on the anchor and watch for a signal mentioned, which was to be hoisted
near the Battery. He might get under way at any minute.

Christy found the person of whom the captain had spoken in the waist.
He was dressed in a black suit, and looked more like a dandy than a
detective. He was apparently about forty years of age, rather slenderly
built, but with a graceful form. He wore a long black mustache, but no
other beard. He was pacing the deck, and seemed to be very uneasy,
possibly because he was all alone, for no one took any notice of him,
though the captain had received him very politely.

"Monsieur Gilfleur?" said Christy, walking up to him, and bowing as
politely as a Parisian.

"I am Mr. Gilfleur; have I the honor to address Lieutenant Passford?"
replied the Frenchman.

"I am Lieutenant Passford, though I have no official position on board
of this steamer."

"I am aware of it," added Mr. Gilfleur, as he chose to call himself,
taking a letter from the breast pocket of his coat, and handing it very
gracefully to Christy.

"Pardon me," added the young officer, as he opened the missive.

It was simply a letter of introduction from Captain Passford, intended
to assure him of the identity of the French detective. Mr. Gilfleur
evidently prided himself on his knowledge of the English language, for
he certainly spoke it fluently and correctly, though with a little of
the accent of his native tongue.

"I am very happy to meet you, Mr. Gilfleur," said Christy in French, as
he extended his hand to the other, who promptly took it, and from that
moment seemed to lose all his embarrassment.

"I thank you, Mr. Passford, for this pleasant reception, for it is
possible that we may have a great deal of business together, and I hope
you have confidence in me."

"Unlimited confidence, sir, since my father heartily indorses you."

"I thank you, sir, and I am sure we shall be good friends, though I am
not a gentleman like you, Mr. Passford."

"You are my equal in every respect, for though my father is a very rich
man, I am not. But we are all equals in this country."

"I don't know about that," said the Frenchman, with a Parisian shrug of
the shoulders. "Your father has treated me very kindly, and I have heard
a great deal about his brave and accomplished son," said Mr. Gilfleur,
with a very deferential bow.

"Spare me!" pleaded Christy, with a deprecatory smile and a shake of the
head.

"You are very modest, Mr. Passford, and I will not offend you. I am not
to speak of our mission before the Chateaugay is out of sight of land,"
said the detective, looking into the eyes of the young man with a gaze
which seemed to reach the soul, for he was doubtless measuring the
quality and calibre of his associate in the mission, as he called it,
in which both were engaged. "I knew your father very well in Paris,"
he added, withdrawing his piercing gaze.

"Then you are the gentleman who found the stewardess of the Bellevite
when she ran away with a bag of French gold at Havre?" said Christy,
opening his eyes.

"I have the honor to be that person," replied Mr. Gilfleur, with one of
his graceful bows. "It was a difficult case, for the woman was
associated with one of the worst thieves of Paris, and it took me a
month to run them down."

"Though I was a small boy, I remember it very well, for I was on board
of the Bellevite at the time," replied Christy. "I know that he was very
enthusiastic in his praise of the wonderful skill of the person who
recovered the money and sent the two thieves to prison. I understand now
why my father sent to Paris for you when he needed a very skilful person
of your profession."

"Thank you, Mr. Passford; you know me now, and we shall be good
friends."

"No doubt of it; but here comes the captain, and I have a word to say to
him," added Christy, as he touched his naval cap to the commander.
"Allow me to introduce to you my friend Mr. Gilfleur, whom my father
employed in Havre six years ago."

The captain was as polite as the Frenchman, and gave him a hearty
reception. Christy then suggested that his friend should be berthed in
the ward room. The ship's steward was called, and directed to give Mr.
Gilfleur a room next to the other passenger. As they were likely to have
many conferences together in regard to the business on their hands, they
were both particular in regard to the location of their rooms; and the
chief steward suited them as well as he could.

The detective spoke to him in French, but the steward could not
understand a word he said. Christy inquired if any of the ward-room
officers spoke the polite language, for his friend might sometimes wish
to converse in his own tongue.

"I don't believe they do, for they all got into the ward room through
the hawse-hole," replied the steward, laughing at the very idea.

When the passengers went on deck, the commander introduced them both to
the officers of the ship. To each in turn, at the request of Christy, he
put the question as to whether or not he could speak French; and they
all replied promptly in the negative, and laughed at the inquiry.

"Have you no one on board who speaks French, Captain Chantor?" asked
Christy.

"I don't know anything about it, but as it seems to be of some
importance to you and your friend, I will ascertain at once. Mr.
Suppleton, will you overhaul the ship's company, and see if you can find
any one that speaks French," continued the commander, addressing the
chief steward.

In about half an hour he returned, and reported that he was unable to
find a single person who could speak a word of French. Doubtless many of
the officers, who were of higher grade than any on board of the
Chateaugay, were fluent enough in the language, but they were not to be
found in the smaller vessels of the navy; for, whatever their rank
before the war, they had all been advanced to the higher positions.
Every one of the officers on board of this steamer had been the captain
of a vessel, and had been instructed in the profession after the war
began. Though substantially educated, they were not to be compared in
this respect with the original officers.

"We can talk as much as we please of our mission after we get out of
sight of land; and as long as we do it in French, no one will understand
us," said Christy to his fellow-passenger.

"As soon as we are permitted by my orders to do so, I shall have much to
say to you, Mr. Passford," replied Mr. Gilfleur.

"On deck!" shouted a man in the mizzen-top.

"Aloft!" returned Mr. Birdwing, the first lieutenant.

"Signal over the boarding-station, sir!" reported the quartermaster in
the top. "It is a number--'Get under way!'"

The executive officer reported the signal to the commander, though he
was on deck, and had heard the words of the quartermaster.

"Get under way at once, Mr. Birdwing," said the captain.

"Boatswain, all hands up anchor!" said the first lieutenant to this
officer; and in a moment the call rang through the ship.

Every officer and seaman was promptly in his station, for it was a
welcome call. The ship's company were dreaming of prize-money, for
officers had made fabulous sums from this source. In one instance a
lieutenant received for his share nearly forty thousand dollars; and
even an ordinary seaman pocketed seventeen hundred from a single
capture. The Chateaugayans were anxious to engage in this harvest, and
in a hurry to be on their way to the field of fortune.

In a short time the steamer was standing down East River at moderate
speed. The Ionian could not be seen yet, and nothing in regard to her
was known to any one on board except the captain and his two passengers.
As the ship approached the battery, a tug, which Christy recognized as
the one his father had employed, came off and hailed the Chateaugay. The
screw was stopped, and Captain Passford was discovered at her bow. He
waved his hat to his son, saluted the commander in the same manner, and
then passed up an envelope.

The tug sheered off, and the ship continued on her course, with a pilot
at the wheel. The missive from the shore was addressed to Captain
Chantor. He opened it at once, and then ordered one bell to be rung to
stop her. A few moments later a heavy tug came off, and twelve men were
put on board, with an order signed by the government official for the
commander to receive them on board. There had evidently been some
afterthoughts on shore. These men were turned in with the crew, except
two who were officers, and they were put in the ward room. The ship then
proceeded on her course.

"The Ionian is about two miles ahead of us, Mr. Passford," said the
captain, after he had used his glass diligently for some time. And he
spoke in a very low tone.

"We have no business with her at present," added Christy.

"None, except to watch her; and, fortunately, we have fine, clear
weather, so that will not be a difficult job. By the way, Mr. Passford,
the envelope I received was from your father, and he gives me
information of another steamer expected in the vicinity of Bermuda about
this time; and he thinks we had better look for her when she comes out
from those islands," said the captain, evidently delighted with the
prospect before him.

"What are these men for that were sent off in the tug?" Christy
inquired; for he felt that he had a right to ask the question.

"They are to take the Ionian back to New York, if we have to capture
her."

Captain Passford appeared to be afraid the Chateaugay would be
shorthanded if she had to send a prize crew home with the Ionian.




CHAPTER IV

MONSIEUR GILFLEUR EXPLAINS


The two officers and ten men that had been sent off to the Chateaugay
after she got under way, had evidently been considered necessary by the
authorities on shore after the receipt of the intelligence that another
vessel for the Confederates had been sent to Bermuda. A steamer had
arrived that day from Liverpool, and Captain Passford must have received
his mail after he landed from the tug. Captain Chantor had waited
several hours for the signal to get under way, and there had been time
enough to obtain the reinforcement from the Navy Yard.

The officer in command of the detachment of sailors said that he had
been ordered to follow the Chateaugay, and he had been provided with a
fast boat for this purpose. The steamer proceeded on her course as soon
as the transport boat had cast off her fasts, and everything suddenly
quieted down on board of her. The distance between the Ionian and the
man-of-war was soon reduced to about a mile. It was beginning to grow
dark, but the crew had been stationed and billed while the ship lay off
the Navy Yard; but the new hands sent on board were assigned to watches
and quarter-watches, stationed and billed, as though they were a part of
the regular ship's company. One of the two additional officers was
placed in each of the watches.

Before it was really dark everything on board was in order, and the ship
was put in perfect trim. Christy could not help seeing that Captain
Chantor was a thorough commander, and that his officers were excellent
in all respects. He walked about the ship, wishing to make himself
familiar with her. His father had not written to him in regard to the
second vessel which the Chateaugay was to look out for in the vicinity
of the Bermuda Islands, and he only knew what the captain had told him
in regard to the matter.

If the steamer was armed, as probably she was, an action would be likely
to come off, and the young lieutenant could not remain idle while a
battle was in prospect. His quick eye enabled him to take in all he saw
without much study, and only one thing bothered him. In the waist,
secured on blocks, was something like the ordinary whaleboat used in the
navy; but it was somewhat larger than those with which he was familiar
in the discharge of his duties, and differed in other respects from
them. The first watch would begin at eight o'clock, and all hands were
still on duty.

"What do you call this boat, Mr. Carlin?" asked Christy, as the third
lieutenant was passing him.

"I call it a nondescript craft," replied the officer, laughing. "It is
something like a whaleboat, but it isn't one."

"What is it for?" inquired the passenger.

"That is more than I know, sir. It was put on deck while we were still
at the Navy Yard. I never saw a boat just like it before, and I have not
the remotest idea of its intended use. Probably the captain can inform
you."

Christy was no wiser than before, but his curiosity was excited. He
strolled to the quarter-deck, where he found the captain directing his
night-glass towards the Ionian, which showed her port light on the
starboard hand, indicating that the Chateaugay was running ahead of her.
The commander called the second lieutenant, and gave him the order for
the chief engineer to reduce the speed of the ship.

"The Ionian is a slow boat; at least, she is not as fast as the
Chateaugay, Mr. Passford," said Captain Chantor, when Christy had halted
near him.

"That is apparent," replied Christy. "How many knots can you make in
your ship, Captain Chantor?"

"I am told that she has made fifteen when driven at her best."

"That is more than the average of the steamers in the service by three
knots," added Christy. "I have just been forward, Captain, and I saw
there a boat which is not quite on the regulation pattern."

"It is like a whaleboat, though it differs from one in some respects,"
added the commander.

"Is it for ordinary service, Captain Chantor?"

"There you have caught me, for I don't know to what use she is to be
applied," replied the captain, laughing because, as the highest
authority on board of the ship, he was unable to answer the question.

"You don't know?" queried Christy. "Or have I asked an indiscreet
question?" said the passenger.

"If I knew, and found it necessary to conceal my knowledge from you,
I should say so squarely, Mr. Passford," added the commander, a little
piqued. "I would not resort to a lie."

"I beg your pardon, Captain Chanter; I certainly meant no offence,"
pleaded Christy.

"No offence, Mr. Passford; my hand upon it," said the commander, and
they exchanged a friendly grip of the hands. "I really know nothing at
all in regard to the intended use of the boat; in my orders, I am simply
directed to place it at the disposal of Mr. Gilfleur at such time and
place as he may require, and to co-operate with him in any enterprise in
which he may engage. I must refer you to the French gentleman for any
further information."

The passenger went below to the ward room. The door of the detective's
room was closed, and he knocked. He was admitted, and there he found Mr.
Gilfleur occupied with a file of papers, which he was busily engaged in
studying. In the little apartment were two middle-sized valises, which
made it look as though the detective expected to pass some time on his
present voyage to the South.

"I hope I don't disturb you, Mr. Gilfleur," said Christy in French.

"Not at all, Mr. Passford; I am glad to see you, for I am ordered to
consult very freely with you, and to inform you fully in regard to all
my plans," replied the Frenchman.

"Perhaps you can tell me, then, what that boat in the waist is for,"
Christy began, in a very pleasant tone, and in his most agreeable
manner, perhaps copying to some extent the Parisian suavity, as he had
observed it in several visits he had made to the gay capital.

"I can tell you all about it, Mr. Passford, though that is my grand
secret. No other person on board of this ship knows what it is for; but
you are my confidant, though I never had one before in the practice of
my profession," replied Mr. Gilfleur, fixing his keen gaze upon his
associate. "A man's secret is the safest when he keeps it to himself.
But I will tell you all about it."

"No! no! I don't wish you to do that, Mr. Gilfleur, if you deem it wise
to keep the matter to yourself," interposed Christy. "My curiosity is a
little excited, but I can control it."

"I shall tell you all about it, for this affair is different from the
ordinary practice of my profession," replied the detective; and he
proceeded to give a history of the boat in the waist, and then detailed
the use to which it was to be applied.

"I am quite satisfied, and I should be glad to take part in the
expedition in which you intend to use it," said Christy when the
explanation in regard to the boat was finished.

"You would be willing to take part in my little enterprise!" exclaimed
the Frenchman, his eyes lighting up with pleasure.

"I should; why not?"

"Because it may be very dangerous, and a slight slip may cost us both
our lives," replied the detective very impressively, and with another of
his keen and penetrating glances.

"I have not been in the habit of keeping under cover in my two years'
service in the navy, and I know what danger is," added Christy.

"I know you are a very brave young officer, Mr. Passford, but this
service is very different from that on the deck of a ship of war in
action. But we will talk of that at a future time," said Mr. Gilfleur,
as he rose hastily from his arm-chair at the desk, and rushed out into
the ward room.

Christy had heard footsteps outside of the door, and he followed his
companion. They found there Mr. Suppleton, the ship's steward, with the
two extra officers who had been sent on board.

"Do you speak French, gentlemen?" asked the detective, addressing
himself to the two officers.

"Not a word of it," replied Mr. Gwyndale, one of them.

"Not a syllable of it," added Mr. Tempers, the other.

"Excuse me, gentlemen," said Mr. Gilfleur, as he retreated to his room.

Mr. Suppleton introduced the two new officers to Christy, and he then
followed his associate. The Frenchman was afraid the new-comers
understood his native language, and had been listening to his
explanation of the use of the strange boat; but he had spoken in a
whisper, and no one could have heard him, even if the listener had been
a Frenchman.

"We are all right," said the detective when they had both resumed their
seats, and the Frenchman had begun to overhaul his papers.

Mr. Gilfleur proceeded to explain in what manner he had obtained his
knowledge of the plot to send the gun-making machinery to the South. One
of Captain Passford's agents had ascertained the name of Hillman Davis,
who was in correspondence with those who were fitting out the ships for
the Confederate service.

"But that is all we learned from the letters--that the men who were
sending out the ships were in correspondence with this man Davis, who is
a very respectable merchant of New York," Mr. Gilfleur proceeded.

"Is that all you had to start with, my friend?" asked Christy.

"That was all; and it was very little. Your American detectives are more
cautious than Frenchmen in the same service."

"I don't see how in the world you could work up the case with nothing
more than a mere name to begin with," added Christy, beginning to have a
higher opinion than ever of the skill of the French detective.

"I tell you it was a narrow foundation on which to work up the case. It
may amuse you, but I will tell you how it was done. In the first place,
Captain Passford gave me all the money I needed to work with. I applied
for a situation at Mr. Davis's warehouse. He imported wines and liquors
from France; when his corresponding clerk, who spoke and wrote French,
was commissioned as a lieutenant in the army, he was looking for a man
to take his place. He employed me. I had charge of the letters, and
carried the mail to him in his private counting-room every time it
came."

"I don't believe that any of our American detectives would have been
competent to take such a position," suggested Christy, deeply interested
in the narrative.

"That is where I had the advantage of them. I was well educated, and was
graduated from the University of France, with the parchment in that
valise, signed by the minister of education. The carrier brought all the
letters to my desk. I looked them over, and when I found any from
England or Scotland, or even France, I opened and read them."

"How could you do that?" asked Christy curiously.

"I was educated to be a lawyer; but before I entered upon the
profession, I found I had a taste for the detective service. I did some
amateur work first, and was very successful. I afterwards reached a high
position in the service of the government. I acquired a great deal of
skill in disguising myself, and in all the arts of the profession.
I could open and reseal a letter so that no change could be discovered
in its appearance, and this was what I did in the service of Mr. Davis.
He was a mean man, the stingiest I ever met, and he was as dishonest and
unscrupulous as a Paris thief. I copied all the letters connected with
the case I had in hand, and this enabled me to get to the bottom of the
traitor's plot. He wrote letters himself, not only to England and
Scotland, but to people in the South, sending them to Bermuda and
Nassau. I took copies of all these, and saved one or two originals.
My pay was so small that I resigned my situation," and he flourished a
great file of letters as he finished.




CHAPTER V

AN ABUNDANCE OF EVIDENCE


Captain Passford had certainly kept his own counsel with punctilious
care; for he had never even mentioned the skilful detective in his
family, though the members of it had met the gentleman in Paris and in
Havre. Mr. Gilfleur was in constant communication with him while he was
working up the exposure of the treason of Davis, who might have been a
relative of the distinguished gentleman at the head of the Southern
Confederacy, though there was no evidence to this effect.

"If the captain of this steamer manages his affair well with the Ionian,
I expect to find letters on board of her signed by Davis," continued Mr.
Gilfleur. "From the information I obtained, your father put American
detectives on the scent of Davis, who dogged him day and night till they
found the Ionian, and ascertained in what manner she obtained her cargo;
but she had been partly loaded before they reached a conclusion, and it
is suspected that she has arms under the pieces of machinery, perhaps
cannon and ammunition."

The detective continued to explain his operations at greater length than
it is necessary to report them. Christy listened till nearly midnight,
and then he went on deck to ascertain the position of the chase before
he turned in. He found the captain on the quarter-deck, vigilant and
faithful to his duty, and evidently determined that the Ionian should
not elude him.

"You are up late, Mr. Passford," said the captain, when he recognized
his passenger in the gloom of the night.

"I have been busy, and I came on deck to see where the Ionian was before
I turned in," replied Christy.

"I think the rascal has a suspicion that we have some business with him,
for at four bells he turned his head in for the shore," added the
commander. "If you go forward you will see that we have dowsed every
glim on board, even to our mast-head and side lights."

"You are carrying no starboard and port light?"

"None; but we have a strong lookout aloft, and in every other available
place. When the chase headed for the shore, we kept on our course for
half an hour, and then put out the lights. We came about and went off to
the eastward for another half-hour. Coming about, we went to the
westward till we made her out, for she has not extinguished her lights.
It is dark enough to conceal the ship from her, and no doubt she thinks
we are still far to the southward of her. At any rate, she has resumed
her former course, which was about south, half west."

Christy was satisfied with this explanation, for the Ionian was doing
just what she was expected to do. She was not inclined to be overhauled
by a gunboat, and she had attempted to dodge the Chateaugay. Besides, if
she were bound to Wilmington, as her clearance stated, she would turn to
the south-west two or three points by this time. The young officer
seated himself in his room, and figured on the situation. If the steamer
were making an honest voyage she would not be more than twenty miles off
Absecum light at this time, and ought to be within ten of the coast.

At two bells Christy was still in his chair, and when he heard the bells
he decided to go on deck again, for he felt that the time would soon
come to settle every doubt in regard to the character of the Ionian. He
found the commander still at his post, and he looked out for the chase.
It was not more than a mile distant, and hardly to be seen in the gloom
of a dark night.

"On deck again, Mr. Passford?" said Captain Chantor.

"Yes, sir; I am too much interested in this affair to sleep; besides,
I feel as though I had slept at home enough to last me six months,"
replied the passenger. "It seems to me that the question of that
vessel's destination is to be decided about this time, or at least
within an hour or two."

Christy explained the calculation he had been making, in which the
captain agreed with him, and declared that he had been over the same
course of reasoning. Both of them thought the Ionian would not wait till
daylight to change her course, as it would be more perilous to do so
then than in the darkness.

"I am confident that she has not seen the Chateaugay since we put out
the lights," said the captain. "At the present moment we must be off
Absecum; but we cannot see the light. She is far off her course for
Wilmington."

"That is plain enough."

"What she will do depends upon whether or not she suspects that a
man-of-war is near her. We shall soon know, for she is already in a
position to justify her capture."

"Better make sure of her course before that is done," suggested Christy,
who felt that he was permitted to say as much as this.

"I don't intend to act till we are south of Cape Henlopen," added the
commander promptly. "Before we do anything, I shall formally consult
you, Mr. Passford, as I am advised to do."

"I shall be happy to serve as a volunteer, and I will obey your orders
without question, and as strictly as any officer on board."

"That is handsome, considering the position in which you have been
placed on board, Mr. Passford, and I appreciate the delicacy of your
conduct."

Christy remained on deck another hour, and at the end of that time a
quartermaster came aft to report that the chase had changed her course
farther to the eastward. This proved to be the fact on examination by
the officers on the quarter-deck, and as nearly as could be made out she
was now headed to the south-east.

"But that will not take her to the Bahama Islands," suggested Christy.

"Certainly not; and she may not be bound to Nassau, as stated in those
letters. But it is useless to speculate on her destination, for we shall
be in condition in the morning to form an opinion," replied the captain.
"I shall keep well astern of her till morning; and if there should be
any change in her movements, I will have you called, Mr. Passford."

Christy considered this a sage conclusion, and he turned in on the
strength of it. He was not disturbed during the remaining hours of the
night. He had taken more exercise than usual that day, and he slept
soundly, as he was in the habit of doing. The bell forward indicated
eight o'clock when he turned out. Breakfast was all ready, but he
hastened on deck to ascertain the position of the chase. The captain was
not on the quarter-deck, but the first lieutenant was planking the deck
for his morning "constitutional."

"Good-morning, Mr. Birdwing," said Christy.

"Good-morning, Mr. Passford; I hope you are very well this morning,"
replied the executive officer.

"Quite well, I thank you, sir. But what has become of the chase?" asked
the passenger, for the Ionian did not appear to be in sight, and he
began to be anxious about her.

"Still ahead of us, sir; but she cannot be seen without a glass. I was
called with the morning watch, when the captain turned in. His policy is
to keep the Ionian so that we may know just where she is, and also to
give her the idea that she is running away from us," replied Mr.
Birdwing, as he took a glass from the brackets and handed it to Christy.

The young officer could just make out the steamer with the aid of the
glass. The Chateaugay was following her; and a glance at the compass
gave her course as south-east, half south. Christy had sailed the Bronx
over this course, and he knew where it would bring up.

"It is plain enough, Mr. Birdwing, that the Ionian is not bound to
Nassau," said he.

"So Captain Chantor said when I came on deck," replied the first
lieutenant.

"And it is equally plain where she is bound," added Christy. "That
course means the Bermuda Islands, and doubtless that is her
destination."

"So the captain said."

The passenger was satisfied, and went below for his breakfast. He found
Mr. Gilfleur at the table; and as the fact that the Chateaugay was
chasing the Ionian was well understood in the ward room, Christy did not
hesitate to tell him the news. The Frenchman bestowed one of his
penetrating glances upon his associate, and said nothing. After the meal
was finished they retired to the detective's room. Mr. Gilfleur looked
over his papers very industriously for a few minutes.

"This affair is not working exactly as it should," said he, as he
selected a letter from his files. "I supposed this steamer would proceed
directly to Nassau. Read this letter, Mr. Passford."

"Colonel Richard Pierson!" exclaimed Christy, as he saw to whom the
letter was addressed.

"Anything strange about the address?" asked the detective.

"Perhaps nothing strange; but I saw this gentleman in Nassau two years
ago," replied Christy, as he recalled the events of his first trip to
Mobile in the Bellevite. "I can say of my own knowledge that he is a
Confederate agent, and was trying to purchase vessels there. This letter
is signed by Hillman Davis."

"The American traitor," added Mr. Gilfleur; and both of them were using
the French language.

"He says he shall send the machinery and other merchandise to Nassau to
be reshipped to Mobile," continued Christy, reading the letter. "He adds
that he has bought the steamer Ionian for this purpose, and he expects
to be paid in full for her. I think that is quite enough to condemn the
steamer."

"Undoubtedly; but what is the Ionian to do in the Bermudas? That is what
perplexes me," said the detective.

"Possibly Captain Chantor can solve the problem, for I am sure I
cannot," answered the young officer, as he rose from his seat.

He was as much perplexed as his companion, and he went on deck to wait
the appearance of the commander. About nine o'clock he came upon the
quarter-deck. The Ionian remained at the same relative distance from the
Chateaugay, for the captain had given an order to this effect before he
turned in.

"I am glad to see you, Captain Chantor," said Christy. "Can you explain
why the Ionian is headed for the Bermudas, for you have later
information than any in my possession?"

"I think I can," replied the captain, taking a letter from his pocket.
"This is the contents of the last envelope brought off from the shore.
The writer of it says he has just addressed a letter to 'our friend in
New York,' directing him, if it is not too late, to send the steamer
with the machinery and other merchandise to the Bermudas, where the
cargo will be transferred to the Dornoch; for the Ovidio had been
obliged to sail without her armament, and the cargo was too valuable to
be risked without protection."

"That is the reason why the reinforcement was sent off at the last
moment," Christy remarked.

"The Dornoch carries six guns and fifty men," added the captain, reading
from the letter. "I think we need not wait any longer to take possession
of the Ionian, Mr. Passford. What is your opinion?"

"I concur entirely with you," replied Christy.

"Quartermaster, strike four bells," continued the captain to the man who
was conning the wheel.

"Four bells," repeated the quartermaster; and the gong could be heard on
deck as he did so.

In the course of half an hour, for the steam had been kept rather low
for the slow progress the ship was obliged to make in order not to alarm
the chase, the Chateaugay began to show what she could do in the matter
of speed, and before noon she had overhauled the Ionian.




CHAPTER VI

THE BOARDING OF THE IONIAN


The Chateaugay, with her colors flying, ran abreast of the Ionian and by
her; but the latter did not show her flag. A blank cartridge was then
fired, but the steamer took no notice of it. A shot was then discharged
across her fore foot, and this brought her to her senses, so that she
hoisted the British flag, and stopped her screw. All the preparations
had been made for boarding her, and two boats were in readiness to
discharge this duty.

The first cutter, in charge of Mr. Birdwing, was the first to leave the
ship. The sea was quite smooth, so that there was no difficulty in
getting the boats off. The first lieutenant's boat went from the
starboard side, and the second cutter was lowered on the port in charge
of the third lieutenant. Christy went in the first boat, and Mr.
Gilfleur in the second. The officers and crews of both boats were
especially directed to see that nothing was thrown overboard from the
Ionian; for if her captain found that he was in a "tight place," he
would be likely to heave his papers into the sea.

The first cutter had not made half the distance to the Ionian before she
pulled down the British flag and hoisted the American in its place. Her
commander evidently believed that he was getting into hot water, and
well he might. He must have been selected for this enterprise on account
of his fitness for it, and as the steamer had not sailed on an honest
voyage, he could not be an honest man, and the officers of the boats
despised him. They were determined to discharge their duty faithfully,
even if they were obliged to treat him with the utmost rigor.

"She has corrected her first blunder," said Mr. Birdwing, as the
American flag went up to her peak. "The skipper of that craft don't
exactly know what he is about."

"It must be a surprise to him to be brought to by a United States
man-of-war," added Christy.

"But why did the fool hoist the British flag when he has no papers to
back it up? That would have done very well among the blockaders,"
continued the officer of the boat. "I don't know very much about this
business, and the captain ordered me to let you and the French gentleman
in the other boat have your own way on board of her, and to do all you
required. Have you any directions for me?"

"We desire to have the steamer thoroughly searched, and I have little
doubt that we shall ask you to take possession of her," replied Christy.

"Then we are to make a capture of it?" asked the first lieutenant,
manifesting no little surprise.

"Under certain circumstances, yes."

"Is she a Confederate vessel?"

"No; she is an American vessel."

"All right; but I shall obey my orders to the very letter," added Mr.
Birdwing. "How many men shall I put on board of her?"

"Twelve, if you please," replied Christy, who had arranged the plan with
the detective.

"Six from each boat," said the executive officer; and then he hailed the
second cutter, and directed Mr. Carlin to send this number on board of
the Ionian.

"And, if you please, direct him to board the steamer on the starboard
side, for I take it you will board on the port," added Christy. "We fear
that she will throw certain papers overboard, and we must prevent that
if possible."

The order was given to the third lieutenant, and in a few minutes more
the first cutter came alongside the steamer. Mr. Birdwing ordered those
on board to drop the accommodation ladder over the side; and for so mild
a gentleman he did it in a very imperative tone. The order was obeyed,
though it appeared to be done very reluctantly. The first lieutenant was
the first to mount the ladder, and was closely followed by his
passenger.

"Where is the captain?" demanded Mr. Birdwing, as the six men detailed
for the purpose were coming over the side.

"I am the captain," replied an ill-favored looking man, stepping forward
with very ill grace.

"What steamer is this?"

"The Ionian, of New York, bound to St. George's, Bermuda," replied the
captain in a crusty tone.

"The captain's name?" demanded the officer, becoming more imperative as
the commander of the Ionian manifested more of his crabbed disposition.

"Captain Sawlock," growled the ill-favored master of the steamer, who
was a rather short man, thick-set, with a face badly pitted by the
small-pox, but nearly covered with a grizzly and tangled beard.

"You will oblige me by producing your papers, Captain Sawlock,"
continued Mr. Birdwing.

"For a good reason, my papers are not regular," answered the captain of
the Ionian, with an attempt to be more affable, though it did not seem
to be in his nature to be anything but a brute in his manners.

"Regular or not, you will oblige me by exhibiting them," the officer
insisted.

"It is not my fault that a change was made in my orders after I got
under way," pleaded Captain Sawlock.

"Will you produce your clearance and other papers?" demanded the
lieutenant very decidedly.

"This is an American vessel, and you have no right to overhaul me in
this manner," growled the captain of the steamer.

"You are in command of a steamer, and you cannot be so ignorant as to
believe that an officer of a man-of-war has not the right to require you
to show your papers," added Mr. Birdwing with a palpable sneer.

"This is an American vessel," repeated Captain Sawlock.

"Then why did you hoist the British flag?"

"That's my business!"

"But it is mine also. Do you decline to show your papers? You are
trifling with me," said Mr. Birdwing impatiently.

At this moment there was a scuffle in the waist of the steamer, which
attracted the attention of all on the deck. Mr. Gilfleur had suddenly
thrown himself on the first officer of the Ionian; and when his second
officer and several sailors had gone to his assistance, the third
lieutenant of the Chateaugay had rushed in to the support of the
Frenchman. The man-of-war's men were all armed with cutlasses and
revolvers; but they did not use their weapons, and it looked like a
rough-and-tumble fight on the deck.

Mr. Birdwing and Christy rushed over to the starboard side of the
steamer; but Mr. Carlin and his men had so effectively sustained the
detective that the affray had reached a conclusion before they could
interfere. Mr. Gilfleur was crawling out from under two or three men who
had thrown themselves upon him when he brought the first officer to the
deck by jumping suddenly upon him. The Frenchman had in his hand a tin
case about a foot in length, and three inches in diameter, such as are
sometimes used to contain charters, or similar valuable papers.

The contest had plainly been for the possession of this case, which the
quick eye of the detective had discovered as the mate was carrying it
forward; for Mr. Carlin had sent two of his men to the stern at the
request of the Frenchman, charged to allow no one to throw anything
overboard. The first officer of the Ionian had listened to the
conversation between Captain Sawlock and the first lieutenant, and had
gone below into the cabin when it began to be a little stormy.

"What does all this mean, Mr. Carlin?" inquired Mr. Birdwing.

"I simply obeyed my orders to support Mr. Gilfleur; and he can explain
his action better than I can," replied the third lieutenant.

"I have requested the officers, through Captain Chantor, to see that
nothing was thrown overboard, either before or after we boarded the
steamer," interposed Christy.

"And the captain's order has been obeyed," added the first lieutenant.
"Will you explain the cause of this affray, Mr. Gilfleur?"

"With the greatest pleasure," answered the detective with one of his
politest bows. "While you were talking with the captain of the Ionian,
I saw the first officer of this steamer go into the cabin. I was told by
a sailor that he was the mate. In a minute or two he came on deck again,
and I saw that he had something under his coat. He moved forward, and
was going to the side when I jumped upon him. After a struggle I took
this tin case from him."

The detective stepped forward, and handed the tin case to the executive
officer as gracefully as though he had been figuring in a ballroom.
Captain Sawlock had followed the officers over from the port side. He
appeared to be confounded, and listened in silence to the explanation of
Mr. Gilfleur. But he looked decidedly ugly.

"That case is my personal, private property," said he, as soon as it was
in the hands of the chief officer of the boarding-party.

"I don't dispute it, Captain Sawlock; but at the same time I intend to
examine its contents," replied Mr. Birdwing mildly, but firmly.

"This is an outrage, Mr. Officer!" exclaimed the discomfited master.

"If it is, I am responsible for it," added the executive officer, as he
removed the cover from the end of the case.

"I protest against this outrage! I will not submit to it!" howled
Captain Sawlock, carried away by his wrath.

"Perhaps you will," said Mr. Birdwing quietly.

"But I will not!"

With a sudden movement he threw himself upon the officer, and attempted
to wrest the tin case from his hands. Christy, who was standing behind
him, seized him by the collar with both hands, and hurled him to the
deck. A moment later two seamen, by order of Mr. Carlin, took him each
by his two arms, and held him like a vice.

"I think we will retire to the cabin to examine these papers, for I see
that the case is filled with documents, including some sealed letters,"
continued Mr. Birdwing, as he moved towards the cabin door.

"That cabin is mine! You can't go into it!" howled Captain Sawlock,
crazy with anger. "Don't let them go into the cabin, Withers!"

Withers appeared to be the mate, and he stepped forward as though he
intended to do something; but a couple of seamen, by order of the first
lieutenant, arrested and held him. He had apparently had enough of it in
his encounter with the detective, for he submitted without any
resistance. If the captain of the steamer was a fool, the mate was not,
for he saw the folly of resisting a United States force.

"Mr. Carlin, you will remain on deck with the men; Mr. Passford and Mr.
Gilfleur, may I trouble you to come into the cabin with me?" continued
Mr. Birdwing, as he led the way.

The executive officer seated himself at the table in the middle of the
cabin, and his companions took places on each side of him. The first
paper drawn from the case was the clearance of the Ionian for
Wilmington, with a cargo of old iron. The manifest had clearly been
trumped up for the occasion. The old iron was specified, and a list of
other articles of merchandise.

At this point the executive officer sent for Mr. Carlin, and directed
him to take off the hatches and examine the cargo, especially what was
under the pieces of machinery. There were several letters to unknown
persons, and one in particular to the captain himself, in which he was
directed to deliver the machinery to a gentleman with the title of
"Captain," who was doubtless a Confederate agent, in St. George's,
Bermuda. The papers were abundantly sufficient to convict Davis of
treason. The last one found in the case directed Captain Sawlock to
deliver the cannon and ammunition in the bottom of the vessel to the
steamer Dornoch, on her arrival at St. George's, or at some convenient
place in the Bahama Islands.




CHAPTER VII

A BOLD PROPOSITION


The evidence was sufficient to justify the capture of the Ionian without
a particle of doubt, for she was as really a Confederate vessel as
though the captain and officers were provided with commissions signed by
Mr. Jefferson Davis.

Mr. Birdwing went to the door and directed the third lieutenant to have
Captain Sawlock conducted to the cabin; and the two seamen who had held
him as a prisoner brought him before the first lieutenant of the
Chateaugay. He appeared to have got control of his temper, and offered
no further resistance. Mr. Carlin came to the door, and his superior
directed him to examine all hands forward, in order to ascertain whether
they were Confederates or otherwise. He gave him the shipping-list to
assist him.

"Are you an American citizen, Captain Sawlock?" asked Mr. Birdwing,
as soon as the third lieutenant had departed on his mission.

"I am," replied he stiffly.

"Where were you horn?"

"In Pensacola."

"Have you ever taken the oath of allegiance to the United States
government?"

"No; and I never will!" protested the captain with an oath.

"I must inform you, Captain Sawlock, that I am directed by the commander
of the United States steamer Chateaugay to take possession of the
Ionian, on finding sufficient evidence on board that she is engaged in
an illegal voyage. I have no doubt in regard to the matter, and I take
possession of her accordingly."

"It is an outrage!" howled the captain with a heavy oath.

"You can settle that matter with the courts. I have nothing more to
say," replied Mr. Birdwing as he rose and left the cabin, followed by
Christy and the detective.

"I found ten heavy guns and a large quantity of ammunition at the bottom
of the hold," reported Mr. Carlin, as his superior appeared on deck, and
handed back the shipping-list of the vessel. "The three engineers appear
to be Englishmen, and so declare themselves. I find six Americans among
the crew, who are provided with protections, and they all desire to
enlist in the navy. The rest of the crew are of all nations."

"Let the six men with protections man the first cutter. You will remain
on board of the Ionian, Mr. Carlin, till orders come to you from the
captain," said the first lieutenant. "I shall now return to the
Chateaugay to report."

Christy decided to return to the ship; but the detective wished to
remain, though he said there was nothing more for him to do. The six
sailors who wished to enter the navy were ordered into the boat, two of
the regular crew remaining in it. The recruits were good-looking men,
and they pulled their oars as though they had already served in the
navy. They supposed the Ionian was really bound to Wilmington; but they
could not explain why they had not enlisted at Brooklyn if they desired
to do so. The first lieutenant went on board of the ship, and reported
to the captain.

Mr. Gwyndale was at once appointed prize-master, with Mr. Tompers as his
executive officer, and sent on board with the ten seamen who had been
put on board of the Chateaugay expressly for this duty. Several pairs of
handcuffs were sent on board of the Ionian, for the first lieutenant
apprehended that they would be needed to keep Captain Sawlock and his
mate in proper subjection. The papers which had been contained in the
tin case were intrusted to the care of Mr. Gwyndale, with the strictest
injunction to keep them safely, and deliver them to the government
official before any of the Ionian ship's company were permitted to land.

The cutters returned from the prize with all the hands who had been sent
from the ship, including Mr. Gilfleur. The prize-master had a sufficient
force with him to handle the steamer, and to control the disaffected, if
there were any besides the captain and mate. The engineers and firemen
were willing to remain and do duty as long as they were paid. In a
couple of hours the Ionian started her screw and headed for New York,
where she would arrive the next day.

Captain Chantor directed the quartermaster at the wheel to ring one
bell, and the Chateaugay began to move again. The events of the day were
discussed; but the first business of the ship had been successfully
disposed of, and the future was a more inviting field than the past. The
captain requested the presence of the two passengers in his cabin, and
read to them in full the latest instructions that had been sent off to
him.

"Our next duty is to look for the Dornoch, with her six guns and fifty
men, and we are not likely to have so soft a time of it as we had with
the Ionian," said Captain Chantor, when he had read the letter.

"The Chateaugay is reasonably fast, though she could not hold her own
with the Bellevite, or even the Bronx; and you have a pivot gun
amidships, and six broadside guns," added Christy.

"Oh, I shall be happy to meet her!" exclaimed the commander. "I don't
object to her six guns and fifty men; the only difficulty I can see is
in finding her. I am afraid she has already gone into St. George's
harbor, and she may not come out for a month."

"Why should she wait all that time?" asked Christy. "Her commander knew
nothing about the Ionian, that she was to take in a valuable cargo for
her, and she will not wait for her."

"That is true; but I am afraid we shall miss the Ovidio if we remain too
long in these waters."

"It seems to me that the Dornoch has had time enough to reach the
Bermudas," said Christy. "Possibly she is in port at this moment."

"That is a harassing reflection!" exclaimed the commander.

"I don't see that there is any help for it," added Christy. "You cannot
go into the port of St. George's to see if she is there."

"Why not?" asked Mr. Gilfleur, speaking for the first time. "I spent a
winter there when I was sick from over-work and exposure; and I know all
about the islands."

"That will not help me, Mr. Gilfleur," said the captain, with a smile at
what he considered the simplicity of the Frenchman.

"But why can you not go in and see if the Dornoch is there?" inquired
the detective.

"Because if I learned that she was about to leave the port, the
authorities would not let me sail till twenty-four hours after she had
gone."

"You need not wait till she gets ready to leave," suggested the
Frenchman.

"She might be ready to sail at the very time I arrived, and then I
should lose her. Oh, no; I prefer to take my chance at a marine league
from the shore," added the captain, shaking his head.

"Perhaps I might go into Hamilton harbor and obtain the information you
need," suggested Mr. Gilfleur, looking very earnest, as though he was
thinking of something.

"You!" exclaimed Captain Chantor, looking at him with amazement. "How
could you go in without going in the ship?"

"You know that I have a boat on deck," replied the detective quietly.

"But you are not a sailor, sir."

"No, I am not a sailor; but I am a boatman. After I had worked up the
biggest case in all my life in Paris,--one that required me to go to
London seven times,--I was sick when the bank-robbers were convicted,
and the excitement was over. The doctors ordered me to spend the winter
in Martinique, and I went to the Bermudas in an English steamer, where I
was to take another for my destination; but I liked the islands so well
that I remained there all the winter. My principal amusement was
boating; and I learned the whole art to perfection. I used to go through
the openings in the reefs, and sail out of sight of land. I had a boat
like the one on deck."

"Your experience is interesting, but I do not see how it will profit
me," said the captain.

"I can go to the Bermudas, obtain the information you want, and return
to the Chateaugay," replied Mr. Gilfleur rather impatiently.

"That would be a risky cruise for you, my friend," suggested Captain
Chantor, shaking his head in a deprecatory manner.

"I don't think so. I have been outside the reefs many times when the
wind blew a gale, and I felt as safe in my boat as I do on board of this
ship," said the detective earnestly.

"How would you manage the matter?" asked the commander, beginning to be
interested in the project.

"You shall run to the south of the islands, or rather to the south-west,
in the night, with all your lights put out, and let me embark there in
my boat. You will give me a compass, and I have a sail in the boat. I
shall steer to the north-east, and I shall soon see Gibbs Hill light. By
that I can make the point on the coast I wish to reach, which is Hogfish
Cut. I have been through it twenty times. Once inside the reefs I shall
have no difficulty in reaching Hamilton harbor. Then I will take a
carriage to St. George's. If I find the Dornoch in the harbor, I will
come out the same way I went in, and you will pick me up."

"That looks more practicable than I supposed it could be," added Captain
Chantor.

"While I am absent you will be attending to your duty as commander of
the Chateaugay, for you will still be on the lookout for your prize,"
continued the versatile Frenchman. "You can run up twenty or thirty
miles to the northward, on the east side of the islands, where all large
vessels have to go in."

"How long will it take you to carry out this enterprise, Mr. Gilfleur?"

"Not more than two days; perhaps less time. Do you consent?"

"I will consider it, and give you an answer to-morrow morning," replied
Captain Chantor.

"Won't you take me with you, Mr. Gilfleur?" asked Christy, who was much
pleased with the idea of such an excursion.

"I should be very happy to have your company, Mr. Passford," replied the
detective very promptly, and with a smile on his face which revealed his
own satisfaction.

"Are you in earnest, Lieutenant Passford?" demanded the commander,
looking with astonishment at his passenger.

"Of course I am: I see no difficulty in the enterprise," replied
Christy. "I have had a good deal of experience in sailboats myself, and
I do not believe I should be an encumbrance to Mr. Gilfleur; and I may
be of some service to him."

"You would be of very great service to me, for you know all about ships,
and I do not," the detective added.

"Just as you please, Mr. Passford. You are not under my orders, for you
are not attached to the ship," said the captain.

The commander went on deck, and the two passengers retired to Christy's
stateroom, where they discussed the enterprise for a couple of hours.
In the mean time the Chateaugay was making her best speed, for Captain
Chantor did not wish to lose any of his chances by being too late; and
he believed that the Dornoch must be fully due at the Bermudas. Before
he turned in that night he had altered the course of the ship half a
point more to the southward, for he had decided to accept the offer of
Mr. Gilfleur; and he wished to go to the west of the islands instead of
the east, as he had given out the course at noon.

For two days more the Chateaugay continued on her voyage. At noon the
second day he found his ship was directly west of the southern part of
the Bermudas, and but fifty miles from them. He shaped his course so as
to be at the south of them that night.




CHAPTER VIII

A NOTABLE EXPEDITION


The position of the Chateaugay was accurately laid down on the chart
fifty miles to the westward of Spears Hill, which is about the
geographical centre of the Bermuda Islands. Captain Chantor had invited
his two passengers to his cabin for a conference in relation to the
proposed enterprise, after the observations had been worked up at noon,
on the fourth day after the departure from New York.

"Now, Mr. Gilfleur, if you will indicate the precise point at which you
desire to put off in your boat, I will have the ship there at the time
you require," said the captain, who had drawn a rough sketch of the
islands, and dotted upon it the points he mentioned in his statement.

"Of course you do not wish the ship to be seen from the islands,"
suggested the detective.

"Certainly not; for if the Dornoch is in port at St. George's that would
be warning her to avoid us in coming out, and she might escape by
standing off to the northward," replied the commander. "Besides, there
might be fishing-craft or other small vessels off the island that would
report the ship if she were seen. It is not advisable to go any nearer
to the islands till after dark. We will show no lights as we approach
your destination."

"How near Gibbs Hill light can you go with safety in the darkness,
Captain?" asked Mr. Gilfleur.

"I should not care to go nearer than ten miles; we could not be seen
from the shore at that distance, but we might be seen by some small
craft."

"That will do very well; and if you will make a point ten miles
south-west of Gibbs Hills light, I shall be exactly suited," added the
detective, as he made a small cross on the sketch near the place where
he desired to embark in the boat.

The conference was finished, and the two passengers went on deck to
inspect the craft which was to convey them to the islands. By order of
the commander the carpenter had overhauled the boat and made such
repairs as were needed. Every open seam had been calked, and a heavy
coat of paint had been put upon it. The sailmaker had attended to the
jib and mainsail, and everything was in excellent condition for the trip
to the shore.

"Is this the same boat that you used when you were in the Bermudas, Mr.
Gilfleur?" asked Christy, as they were examining the work which had been
done on the craft, its spars and sails.

"Oh, no; it was six years ago that I spent the winter in the islands. I
found this boat under a shed on a wharf in New York. It had been picked
up near the Great Abaco in the Bahama Islands by a three-master, on her
voyage from the West Indies," replied Mr. Gilfleur. "When I had formed
my plan of operations in the vicinity of Nassau, in order to obtain the
information the government desired, I bought this boat. When picked up,
the boat had her spars, sails, oars, water-breakers, and other articles
carefully stowed away on board of her; and it appeared as though she had
broken adrift from her moorings, or had been carried away by a rising
tide from some beach where those in charge of her had landed. I happened
to find the captain of the vessel that brought the boat to New York; and
he made me pay roundly for her, so that he got well rewarded for his
trouble in picking it up."

The Chateaugay stood due south till six o'clock at little more than half
speed, and when she came about her dead reckoning indicated that she was
seventy-five miles to the south-west of Gibbs Hill light. The weather
was very favorable for the proposed enterprise, with a moderate breeze
from the west. Mr. Gilfleur did not wish to leave the ship till after
midnight, for all he desired was to get inside the outer reefs before
daylight. The speed of the ship was regulated to carry out this idea.

The light so frequently mentioned in the conference is three hundred and
sixty-two feet above the sea level, for it is built on the highest point
of land in the south of the Bermudas, and could be seen at a distance of
thirty miles. At three bells in the first watch the light was reported
by the lookout, and the speed was reduced somewhat.

About this time the detective came out of his stateroom, and entered
that of Christy. He had smeared his face with a brownish tint, which
made him look as though he had been long exposed to the sun of the
tropics. He was dressed in a suit of coarse material, though it was not
the garb of a sailor. He had used the scissors on his long black
mustache, and given it a snarly and unkempt appearance. Christy would
not have known him if he had met him on shore.

"You look like another man," said he, laughing.

"A French detective has to learn the art of disguising himself; in fact,
he has to be an actor. Perhaps you will not be willing to believe it,
but I have played small parts at the Thtre Franais for over a year,
more to learn the actor's art of making himself up than because I had
any histrionic aspirations. I have worked up a case in the capacity of
an old man of eighty years of age," the detective explained. "When I
recovered the property of your father, stolen at Havre, I played the
part of a dandy, and won the confidence of the stewardess, though I came
very near having to fight a duel with the _voleur_ who was her 'pal' in
the robbery."

"Of course it will not do for me to wear my lieutenant's uniform,"
suggested Christy.

"Not unless you wish to have your head broken by the crews of the
blockade-runners you will find at St. George's," replied the Frenchman
significantly.

"I have some old clothes in my valise," added the lieutenant.

"I don't like the idea of putting you in a humiliating position, Mr.
Passford, but I have not told you all my plans."

"I will take any position you assign to me, for I am now to be a
volunteer in your service."

"I intend to represent myself as a French gentleman of wealth, who has
passed the winter in the Bahama Islands in search of health, and found
it in abundance," said Mr. Gilfleur, with a pleasant smile on his face,
as though he really enjoyed the business in which he was at present
engaged.

"Have you ever been in the Bahamas?" asked Christy.

"All through them, including Nassau. If I had not, I should not have
brought that boat with me. I made a trip in an English steamer from the
Bermudas, which had occasion to visit nearly all the islands; and I
passed about two months of my stay in this region on that cruise,"
replied the detective.

"But how far is it from the Bermudas to the nearest point in the
Bahamas? Will people believe that we came even from the Great Abaco in
an open boat?" inquired Christy. "What is the distance?"

"I estimate it at about seven hundred and fifty miles. That is nothing
for a boat like mine, though I should not care to undertake it in the
hurricane season," replied Mr. Gilfleur. "By the way, we must borrow
some charts of this region from the captain, though only to keep up
appearances."

"You have not told me in what character I am to be your companion,"
suggested Christy.

"As my servant, if you do not rebel at the humiliation of such a
position, though I promise to treat you very kindly, and with all proper
consideration," laughed the Frenchman.

"I have not the slightest objection to the character; and I will
endeavor to discharge my duties with humility and deference," responded
the lieutenant in the same vein.

"Now let me see what sort of a suit you have for your part," added the
detective.

Christy took from his valise a suit he had worn as a subordinate officer
when he was engaged in the capture of the Teaser. It was approved by his
companion, and he dressed himself in this garb.

"But you have been bleached out by your long stay at Bonnydale, and your
complexion needs a little improvement," said Mr. Gilfleur, as he went to
his room for his tints.

On his return he gave to the face of the officer the same sun-browned
hue he had imparted to his own. While he was so employed, he explained
that the tint was a fast color under ordinary circumstances, and in what
manner it could be easily removed, though it would wear off in about a
week.

"Now, you need only a little touching up," continued the detective, when
he had completed the dyeing process. "You will be amazed at the change
produced in the expression of a person by a few touches of paint
skilfully applied," and he proceeded to make the alteration proposed.

When he had finished his work, Christy looked in the glass, and declared
that he should hardly know himself. The preparations were completed, and
the French gentleman and his servant were ready to embark. But it was
only eleven o'clock, and both of them turned in for a nap of a couple of
hours. The captain had retired early in the evening, and the
quartermaster conning the wheel was steering for the light, the
Chateaugay making not more than six knots an hour.

At one o'clock the commander was called, in accordance with his order to
the officer of the watch. He went on deck at once, had the log slate
brought to him, and made some calculations, which resulted in an order
to ring two bells, which meant "Stop her." Then he went to the ward room
himself, and knocked at the doors of his two passengers. Mr. Gilfleur
and Christy sprang from their berths, and the two doors were opened at
once. No toilet was necessary, for both of them had lain down with their
clothes on.

"Pray, who might you be?" demanded the captain, laughing heartily when
the detective showed himself in his new visage and dress. "Can you
inform me what has become of Mr. Gilfleur?"

"He has stepped out for a couple of days, and Monsieur Rubempr has
taken his place," replied the detective.

"And who is this gentleman?" asked Captain Chantor, turning to his other
passenger, who was quite as much changed in appearance.

"Contrary to his usual custom, he does not claim to be a gentleman just
now. This is Christophe, my servant, employed as such only for a couple
of days," answered Monsieur Rubempr.

"All right, Mr. Rubumper! Three bells have just been struck, and the
watch are putting your boat into the water," continued the commander.
"I have directed the steward to fill your breaker with water, and put a
small supply of provisions into the craft. We shall be ready for you in
about half an hour."

"We are all ready at this moment," replied Monsieur Rubempr; for both
of the passengers had agreed to call each other by their assumed names
at once, so as to get accustomed to them, and thus avoid committing
themselves in any moment of excitement.

The detective came out of his room with a valise in his hand, which he
had packed with extreme care, so that nothing should be found in it, in
case of accident, to compromise him. He had superintended the placing of
Christy's clothing in one of his valises. He objected to the initials,
"C. P.," worked on his linen; but the owner had no other, and the
difficulty was compromised by writing the name of "Christophe Poireau"
on a number of pieces of paper and cards, and attaching a tag with this
name upon it to the handle.

Both of them put on plain overcoats, and went on deck, where the boat,
which had the name of Eleuthera painted on the stern, had already been
committed to the waves.




CHAPTER IX

THE FRENCHMAN IN BERMUDA


"Bon voyage, Mr. Rubumper," said Captain Chanter, as the Frenchman was
about to descend the accommodation ladder. "I know French enough to say
that."

"Thank you, Captain."

"I hope you will make a success of the enterprise, Mr. Passford," the
commander added to the other member of the expedition.

"I shall do the best I can to make it so," answered Christy, as he
followed his companion down the accommodation ladder.

The detective shoved the boat off, and both of the voyagers took the
oars to get the craft clear of the ship, which was accomplished in a few
minutes. Then the Frenchman stepped the mast, which had been carefully
adjusted on board of the ship, while Christy rigged out the shifting
bowsprit. In half an hour they had placed the spars and bent on the
sail, for everything had been prepared for expeditious work. The sails
filled, and the skipper took his place at the long tiller.

"We are all right now, Christophe," said the detective.

"I should say that we were, Monsieur Rubempr," replied the acting
servant. "We have ten miles to make: with this breeze, how long will it
take for this boat to do it?"

"If she sails as well as mine did, she will make it in two hours."

The craft was about twenty feet long, and was sharp at both ends. She
had a cuddy forward, which was large enough to accommodate both of her
crew in a reclining posture. It had been furnished with a couple of
berthsacks, and with several blankets. The provisions and water had been
placed in it, as well as a couple of lanterns, ready for use if occasion
should require.

It was a summer sea in this latitude, with a very steady breeze from the
westward. The overcoats they wore were hardly necessary, and they had
put them on mainly to conceal their changed garments from the crew of
the ship, who could only conjecture what the expedition meant.

"You are a younger man than I am, Christophe, and you have slept only a
couple of hours to-night," said M. Rubempr, as soon as the Eleuthera
was well under way; and the remark was called forth by a long gape on
the part of the younger person. "You can turn in and sleep a couple of
hours more just as well as not, for there is nothing whatever for you to
do. We may have to make a long day of it to-morrow."

"I am accustomed to doing without my sleep at times," replied
Christophe, which was his first name, according to the French
orthography, and was pronounced in two syllables.

"Of course you have, when your duty required you to be on deck; but
there is not the least need of doing so now."

The lieutenant complied with the advice of the skipper, and in five
minutes more he was sound asleep. The Bahama boat, with a Bahama name,
rose and fell on the long rolling seas, which were very gentle in their
motion, and made very good progress through the water. The light could
be plainly seen in its lofty position, and the detective steered for it
over an hour, and then kept it a little on the starboard hand; for the
opening in the outer reef through which he intended to pass was two
miles to the westward of the high tower. He had correctly estimated the
speed of the boat, for the faint light of the dawn of day began to
appear in the east when he was able clearly to discern the outline of
the hills on the most southern of the islands.

Although it was still quite dark, the Frenchman continued on his course
very confidently. The reefs extended out two miles from the main shore;
but the navigator was so familiar with the locality that they did not
trouble him. Bearing about north-west from the light was Wreck Hill, one
hundred and fifty feet high, which assisted him in keeping his course.
As he approached the mainland he made out the fort, and steering
directly for it, passed safely through Hogfish Cut.

When he was within half a mile of this fort, he headed the boat to the
north-west. It was still eighteen miles to Hamilton, the capital of the
islands; but he had a fair wind, and the boat made about five miles an
hour. Christy still slept, and the skipper did not wake him. It was
daylight when he was abreast of Wreck Hill, and there was no further
difficulty in the navigation. It was half-past eight when he ran up to
a pier where he had kept his boat in former days. There were plenty of
just such crafts as the Eleuthera, and no attention was paid to her as
she passed along the Front-street docks. The pier at which he made his
landing was in a retired locality. He lowered the sails, and had made
everything snug on board before he called his companion.

"Half-past eight, Christophe," said he at the door of the cuddy.

"Half-past eight!" exclaimed Christy, springing out of his berth on the
floor. "Where are we now, M. Rubempr?"

"We are in Hamilton harbor; and if you will come out of the cuddy, you
will find yourself in the midst of flowers and green trees," replied the
skipper with a smile.

"I must have slept six hours," said Christy, rubbing his eyes as he
crawled out of the cuddy.

The scenery around him was certainly very beautiful, and he gazed upon
it in silence for a few minutes. It seemed to him just as though he had
waked in fairyland. He had cruised in the vicinity of the islands, but
he had never been very near the shore before. Though he had been in
Alabama, and seen the shores of the Gulf States, he had never beheld any
region that seemed so lovely to him. He had been on shore at Nassau, but
only on the wharves, and had hardly seen the beauties of the island.

"Why didn't you call me before, M. Rubempr?" asked he, when he had
taken in the view from the pier.

"Because I thought your sleep would do you more good than the view of
the shore, which you will have plenty of opportunities to see before we
leave," replied the detective. "But we must begin our work, for we have
no time to lose. I arranged with Captain Chantor to pick us up to-morrow
night at about the point where we embarked in the boat. In the mean time
he will sail around the islands, though the Chateaugay will not come
near enough to be seen from the shore."

"What will you do with the boat while we are absent?"

"Leave it where it is."

While they were talking, an old negro came down the pier, and very
politely saluted the strangers. He appeared to come from a small house a
short distance from the shore, and passed along to a boat which lay near
the Eleuthera.

"Is that your boat?" asked the detective, calling him back.

"Yes, sir; I am a fisherman, though I've got the rheumatism, and don't
go out much; but I have to go to-day, for we have nothing to eat in the
house," replied the negro, whose language was very good.

"What is your name?"

"Joseph, sir."

"Do you speak French?"

"Oh, no, sir!" exclaimed Joseph. "I don't speak anything but plain
English; but I used to work sometimes for a French gentleman that kept a
boat at this pier, six or seven years ago."

"What was his came?" asked the detective, who had had a suspicion from
the first that he knew the man, though he had changed a great deal as he
grew older.

"Mounseer Gillflower," replied Joseph; "and he was very kind to me."

"I am a Frenchman, Joseph; and, if you don't want to go fishing, I will
employ you to take care of my boat, and carry my valise to a hotel,"
continued the detective, as he handed an English sovereign to him, for
he had taken care to provide himself with a store of them in New York.

"Thank you, sir; but I can't change this piece," protested Joseph very
sadly.

"I don't want you to change it; keep the whole of it."

"God bless you forever and ever, Mounseer!" exclaimed the fisherman.
"I haven't had a sovereign before since Mounseer Gillflower was here.
I am a very poor man, and I can't get any work on shore."

Probably, like the rest of his class, he was not inclined to work while
he had any money. He promised to take good care of the Eleuthera, and he
asked no troublesome questions. The detective gave his name, and ordered
Christophe, calling him by his name, to bring the valises on shore. Then
the Frenchman locked the door of the cuddy, for they left their
overcoats there, as they had no use for them.

"To what hotel shall I carry the valises?" asked Joseph.

"To the Atlantic; that will be the most convenient for us. Do you know
anything about these vessels in the harbor, Joseph?"

"Not much, Mounseer Roobump; but they say the two steamers near the
island are going to run the blockade into the States; but I don't know.
They say a Confederate man-of-war came into St. George's harbor
yesterday; but I haven't seen her, and I don't know whether it's true or
not."

"What is her name?" asked the detective, who from the beginning had
broken up his English, and imparted a strong French accent to it.

"I did not hear any one mention her name, Mounseer. That vessel this
side of the island is the mail steamer from New York; she got in
yesterday," continued Joseph.

"That is important; if the Dornoch is the Confederate man-of-war that
arrived at St. George's yesterday, this steamer brought letters from
Davis to her captain," said the Frenchman to Christy, in French.

"But Davis could not have learned that the Ionian had been captured
before the mail steamer left New York," added Christy, in the same
language.

"No matter for that, Christophe. I did not resign my place at Davis's
warehouse till the morning we sailed; and I have his letter to the
captain of the Dornoch with my other papers on board of the Chateaugay,
and I know that was the only letter written to him. As he has no
information in regard to the Ionian, he will not wait for her."

"I remember; you showed me the letter."

Joseph listened with a show of wonder on his face to this conversation
which he could not understand. The detective directed him to carry the
two valises to the hotel named; but Christy interposed in French, and
insisted that it would look better for him to carry his own valise, and
the point was yielded. The Atlantic Hotel was on Front Street, the
harbor being on one side of it. A couple of rooms were assigned to them,
one of them quite small, which was taken by Christy, in order to keep up
appearances.

M. Rubempr registered his name, putting "and servant" after it, Paris,
and spoke even worse English than he had used to Joseph. Breakfast had
been ordered, but Christy, being only a servant, had to take his meal at
a side table. The detective was not dressed like a gentleman, and the
landlord seemed to have some doubts about his ability to pay his bills,
though he had baggage. He was not treated with anything like deference,
and he saw the difficulty. After breakfast he took a handful of English
gold from his pocket, and asked the landlord to change one of the coins
for smaller money. Mine host bowed low to him after this exhibition.

"I want to see the American consul," said M. Rubempr, in his own
language.

"I will go with you, but I think I will not see him, for he may take it
into his head that I am not a Frenchman," added Christy.

"You can come with me, and stay outside."

When they reached the consulate, which was on the same street as the
hotel, they found about a dozen sailors in front of the building. They
were a very rough and hard-looking set of men. They appeared to be
considerably excited about something, and to be bent on violence in some
direction; but the strangers could make nothing of the talk they heard,
though "the bloody spy" was an expression frequently used.




CHAPTER X

IMPORTANT INFORMATION OBTAINED


Christy walked behind the detective in his capacity as servant. It was
soon evident to them that the ruffians gathered in the street meant
mischief. On the staff over their heads floated the flag of the United
States. Though Mr. Gilfleur was an alien, his companion was not. Of
course he knew that the islands were the resort of blockade-runners,
that they obtained their supplies from the two towns of Hamilton and St.
George's. This fact seemed to explain the occasion of the disturbance in
this particular locality.

"What does all this mean, Christophe?" asked M. Rubempr, falling back
to join Christy at the door of the consulate.

"I should judge that these ruffians intended to do violence to the
American consul," replied Christy. "I heard in New York that he was
faithful in the discharge of his duty to his government, and doubtless
he has excited the indignation of these ruffians by his fidelity. His
principal business is to follow up the enforcement of the neutrality
laws, which compels him to watch these blockade-runners, and vessels of
war intended for the Confederate States."

"That was my own conclusion," added the Frenchman, speaking his own
language, as usual. "I should say that his position is not a pleasant
one."

"Here comes the bloody spy!" shouted several of the ruffians.

Looking down the street, they saw a dignified-looking gentleman
approaching, whom they supposed to be the consul, Mr. Alwayn. He did not
seem to be alarmed at the demonstration in front of his office. The
disturbers of the peace fell back as he advanced, and he reached the
door where the detective and his companion were standing without being
attacked. The mob, now considerably increased in numbers, though
probably more than a majority, as usual, were merely spectators, hooted
violently at the representative of the United States.

The gentleman reached the door of his office, and by this time the
ruffians seemed to realize that simple hooting did no harm, and they
rushed forward with more serious intentions. One of them laid violent
hands on the consul, seizing him by the back of his coat collar, and
attempting to pull him over backwards. Christy felt that he was under
the flag of his country, and his blood boiled with indignation; and,
rash as was the act, he planted a heavy blow with his fist under the ear
of the assailant, which sent him reeling back among his companions.

"No revolvers, Christophe!" said the detective earnestly, as he placed
himself by the side of the young man.

Christy's revolver was in his hip-pocket, where he usually carried it,
and the detective feared he might use it, for both of them could hardly
withstand the pressure upon them; and the firing of a single shot would
have roused the passions of the mob, and led to no little bloodshed.
M. Rubempr was entirely cool and self-possessed, which could hardly be
said of the young naval officer.

  [Illustration:
  "He planted a heavy blow with his fist under the ear of his
  assailant." Page 116.]

By this time Mr. Alwayn had opened the front door of the office, and
gone in. The detective backed in after him, and then pushed Christy in
after the consul. The ruffians saw that they were losing their game, and
they rushed upon the door. One of them crowded his way in, but M.
Rubempr, in a very quiet way, delivered a blow on the end of the
assailant's nose, which caused him to retreat, with the red fluid
spurting from the injured member.

Taking his place, two others pushed forward, and aimed various blows at
the two defenders of the position; but both of them were skilled in this
sort of play, and warded off the strokes, delivering telling blows in
the faces of the enemy. Mr. Alwayn had partially closed the door; but he
was not so cowardly as to shut out his two volunteer defenders. As soon
as they understood his object, they backed in at the door, dispersing
the ruffians with well-directed blows, and the consul closed and locked
the door. Before any further mischief could be done, the police came and
dispersed the rioters. The consul fared better on this occasion than on
several others, in one of which he was quite seriously injured.

As soon as order was restored, Mr. Alwayn conducted his defenders to his
office, where he thanked them heartily for the service they had rendered
him. During the _mlee_ M. Rubempr had tried to address the ruffians in
broken French, for he did not for a moment forget his assumed character.
He used the same "pigeon-talk" to the consul, and Christy, in the little
he said, adopted the same dialect.

"I see you are not Americans, my friends," said the official.

"No, saire; we are some Frenchmen," replied the detective, spreading out
his two hands in a French gesture, and bowing very politely.

"Being Frenchmen, I am not a little surprised that you should have
undertaken to defend me from this assault," added Mr. Alwayn.

"Ze Frenchman like, wat was this you call him, ze fair play; and ve
could not prevent to put some fingers in tose pies. Ver glad you was not
have the head broke," replied M. Rubempr, with another native flourish.
"_Mais_, wat for de _canaille_ make ze war on you, saire? You was
certainment un gentleman ver respectable."

Mr. Alwayn explained why he had incurred the hostility of the
blockade-runners and their adherents, for he was sometimes compelled to
protest against what he regarded as breaches of neutrality, and was
obliged in the discharge of his duty to look after these people very
closely, so that he was regarded as a spy.

"Oh! it was ze blockheads, was it?" exclaimed the Frenchman.

"Hardly the blockheads," replied the consul, laughing at the blunder of
the foreigner. "It is the blockade-runners that make the trouble."

"Blockade-runners! _Merci._ Was there much blockadeers here in ze
islands?" asked M. Rubempr, as though he was in total ignorance of the
entire business of breaking the blockade.

"Thousands of them come here, for this is about the nearest neutral port
to Wilmington, where many of this sort of craft run in."

"Wilmington was in Delaware, where I have seen him on ze map."

"No, sir; this Wilmington is in North Carolina. If you look out on the
waters of the harbor, half the vessels you see there are
blockade-runners," added the consul. "And there are more of them at St.
George's. It was only yesterday that a steamer I believe to be intended
for a man-of-war for the Confederacy came into the port of St. George's,
and I have been much occupied with her affairs, which is probably the
reason for this attempt to assault me."

"Ze _man_-of-war," repeated the Frenchman. "Ze war, _c'est la guerre_;
_mais_ wat was ze man?"

"She is a vessel used for war purposes."

"_She!_ She is a woman; and I think that steamer was a woman-of-war."

The consul laughed heartily, but insisted upon the feminine designation
of the steamer.

"What you call ze name of ze man-of-war?" asked M. Rubempr, putting on
a very puzzled expression of countenance.

"The Dornoch," replied Mr. Alwayn.

"The D'Ornoch," added the detective. "How you write him--like zis?" and
he wrote it on a piece of paper by his own method.

"Not exactly," replied the consul, writing it as given in English.

"How long ze Dornoch will she stop in zat port?" asked the Frenchman,
in a very indifferent tone, as though the answer was not of the least
consequence to him.

"Not long; I heard it stated in St. George's that she would get her
supplies and cargo on board to-day and to-morrow, and will sail before
dark to-morrow night," replied Mr. Alwayn. "The government here ought
not to allow her to remain even as long as that, for she is plainly
intended for a Confederate cruiser, and my men inform me that she has
six great guns, and fifty men."

M. Rubempr obtained all the information the consul was able to give
him, and much of it was of great importance. The official was under
obligations to the two strangers, and he seemed not to suspect that
either of them was an American, much less a naval officer. They took
their leave of him in the politest manner possible, and were shown to
the door by the consul.

"I am not quite sure that all his information is correct, and we must
investigate for ourselves," said the detective when they were in the
street. "But this affray is bad for us, and I was very sorry when you
interfered, Christophe."

"You did not expect to see me fold my arms when a representative of the
United States, and under our flag, was attacked by a lot of ruffians?"
demanded Christy, rather warmly, though he spoke in French.

"I know you could not help it, and I did my best to aid you," added M.
Rubempr. "I only mean that it was unfortunate for us, for when we go
about on the islands, we may be recognized by some of that mob. We must
go back to the hotel."

In a few minutes more they were at the Atlantic, where the Frenchman,
with his usual flourish, ordered a carriage to be ready in half an hour,
adding that he was about to dress for some visits he was to make in St.
George's. They went to their rooms, and each of them changed his dress,
coming out in black suits. The master wore a frock coat, but the servant
was dressed in a "claw-hammer," and looked like a first-class waiter.

It is about a two hours' ride over to St. George's, and Christy enjoyed
the excursion as much as though there had not been a blockade-runner in
the world. The town, with even its principal street not more than ten
feet wide, reminded him of some of the quaint old cities of Europe he
had visited with his father a few years before. But M. Rubempr was bent
on business, and the delightful scenery was an old story to him. They
took a boat at a pier, and for an hour a negro pulled them about the
harbor. There were quite a number of steamers in the port, long, low,
and rakish craft, built expressly for speed, and some of them must have
been knocked to pieces by the blockaders before the lapse of many weeks,
though a considerable proportion of them succeeded in delivering their
cargoes at Wilmington or other places.

The visitors looked them over with the greatest interest. They even went
on board of a couple of them, the detective pretending that he was
looking for a passage to some port in the South from which he could
reach Mobile, where his brother was in the Confederate army. No one
could doubt that he was a Frenchman, and on one of them the captain
spoke French, though very badly. M. Rubempr's good clothes secured the
respect and confidence of those he encountered, and most of the officers
freely told him where they were bound, and talked with great gusto of
the business in which they were engaged. But none of them could
guarantee him a safe passage to any port on the blockaded coast.

The excursion in the boat was continued, for the visitors had not yet
seen the steamer they were the most anxious to examine. The detective
would not inquire about this steamer, fearful that it might be reported
by the negro at the oars, and excite suspicion. But at last, near the
entrance to the harbor, the boatman pointed out the Dornoch, and told
them all he knew about her. There were several lighters alongside,
discharging coal and other cargo into her.

M. Rubempr, in his broken English, asked permission to go on deck, and
it was promptly accorded to him. He was very polite to the officers, and
they treated him with proper consideration. There were no guns in sight,
and the steamer looked like a merchantman; but if she had been searched,
her armament would have been found in the hold. The visitor again
repeated his desire to obtain a passage to the South; and this request
seemed to satisfy the first officer with whom he talked. He was informed
that the steamer would sail about five on the afternoon of the next day,
and he must be on board at that time, if he wished to go in the vessel.
He learned many particulars in regard to her.




CHAPTER XI

AN UNEXPECTED RENCONTRE


It was lunch-time when the visitors landed, and they proceeded to the
St. George's Hotel in Market Square, to attend to this mid-day duty. In
the coffee-room they found quite a number of guests, and the only spare
seat the detective found was at a large table at which a gentleman in
uniform was seated.

"Wit your permis-si-on, I take one of the places here," said M. Rubempr
with his politest flourish.

"Certainly," replied the gentleman, as politely as the Frenchman; and he
seated himself at the table, Christy remaining standing.

"_Demandez un garcon_" (ask for a waiter), "Christophe." Then in French
he asked the stranger opposite him if he spoke that language.

"A little, sir; but I am not fluent in it," replied the gentleman in the
same language.

"Ah, my dear sir, you speak very well; and you have the Parisian
accent," added the Frenchman, who, like his countrymen, counted upon the
effect of a little well-administered flattery.

"You are very kind to say so, sir. I have been in Paris a few months,
and was always able to make my way with the language," said the
stranger, evidently pleased with the commendation bestowed upon his
French accent; for many people take more pride in their foreign accent
than in the proper use of their own language.

"Christophe, find a place for yourself, and order what you desire,"
continued the Frenchman, as a waiter, summoned by the acting servant,
presented himself to take the order.

At this moment a gentleman behind the detective vacated his place at the
table, and Christy took a seat close to his companion. The lunch of both
was ordered, and the stranger opposite had but just commenced his meal.
M. Rubempr "laid himself out" to make himself as agreeable as possible,
and he seemed to be succeeding admirably, for the stranger appeared to
be absolutely charmed with him. Speaking slowly and clearly, so that the
person in uniform, who did not speak French fluently, could understand
him, he told him all about his brother in the Confederate army, and
strongly expressed his desire to join him, and perhaps the army, for he
had very strong sympathy for the right in the great conflict; in fact,
he was disposed to engage in fighting for the right.

Then he inquired of his new friend what wine was the best in the island.
The stranger preferred sherry, but perhaps a Frenchman might take a
different view of the subject. M. Rubempr ordered both sherry and
claret, and then filled the glasses of his _vis-a-vis_ and his own. He
did not offer any to his servant, for he knew that he never touched it.
They drank claret first to each other's health.

"You are in the military, my friend?" continued the detective.

"No, sir; I am a sailor. Allow me to introduce myself as Captain
Rombold, of the steamer Dornoch."

"I am extremely happy to make your acquaintance, Captain Rombold. To
reciprocate, I am M. Rubempr, of Paris," added the Frenchman, as he
filled his companion's glass, and they tippled again with an abundance
of compliments. "I presume that you are in the British navy, Captain
Rombold?"

"At present I am not, though I was formerly in that service, and
resigned to engage in a more lucrative occupation."

"Indeed, what could be better than the position of an officer in the
Royal navy?"

"I am now a commander in the navy of the Confederate States," added the
captain, looking with interest into the face of his companion. "I am
taking in coal and cargo, and shall sail at five to-morrow afternoon for
Wilmington."

"Is it possible?" said M. Rubempr, who appeared to be greatly impressed
by what was said to him. "I wish I was a sailor, but I am not. You will
break through the blockade?"

"I apprehend no difficulty in doing that, for the Dornoch is good for
fourteen knots an hour, and most of the Federal fleet cannot make more
than twelve."

Christy was very glad to hear this acknowledgment of the speed of the
intended cruiser, for it assured him that the Chateaugay could outsail
her. The two gentlemen at the other table passed the wine very freely,
and both of them seemed to be considerably exhilarated; but he was glad
to perceive that his friend allowed the captain to do the most of the
talking. The lunch was finished at last, and both of them rose from the
table.

"I am exceedingly obliged to you, M. Rubempr, for the pleasure I have
derived from this interview," said Captain Rombold, as he grasped the
hand of his companion. "I have had more practice with my French than for
several years, and I take great delight in speaking the language. I hope
we shall meet again."

"Thanks! Thanks! I am very sure that we shall meet again; and almost as
sure that we shall meet fighting for the right," added the Frenchman.

"But I hope you will be a passenger on board of the Dornoch, as you
suggested to me a little while ago. I will give you a good stateroom,
though I cannot absolutely promise to take you to the port of our
destination, for accidents may happen in the midst of the blockaders."

"If I can go with you, my dear Captain Rombold, I shall be on board of
your ship by four to-morrow afternoon," replied the detective, as he
took the hand of his new friend for the last time.

Christy had finished his lunch, and they left the hotel together. The
carriage in which they had come called for them at the appointed time,
and they returned to Hamilton. The conversation was continued in French,
so that the driver was none the wiser for what he heard. At the Atlantic
they went to their rooms, where the information they had obtained was
collaborated, and written down in French, the detective concealing it in
a belt pocket he wore on his body.

"The wonder to me has been that these officers talked so freely," said
Christy, as they seated themselves at a window. "They talked to you as
plainly as though you had been their friend for life."

"Why shouldn't they? They can't help knowing that I am a Frenchman; and
I am sorry to say that my countrymen, like so many of the English,
sympathize with the South in the great Civil War. They take me for a
friend at once. Besides, as they understand the matter here, why should
these blockade-runners, or even the Confederate commander, object to
telling what they are going to do. There will be no mail steamer to New
York till after they have all gone off; and there is no telegraph yet."

"Perhaps you are right, M. Rubempr; but I think a good deal more
discretion would become them better, as they are likely to ascertain
very soon," added Christy.

"I suppose none of these people here would consider it possible or
practicable to land at these islands and pick up the news, as we have
done. This was my plan for Nassau, but I did not think of applying it to
the Bermudas, till Captain Chantor told me his difficulty as to waiting
for the Dornoch."

"It seems to me we have done all we can do here, and there is nothing
more to do."

"That is very true; but I supposed it would take at least two days to do
our business. We have been much more successful than I anticipated, and
performed the duty in half the time I supposed it would require. But it
was better to have too much time than too little."

"It is nearly night now, and we have another day to spend here."

"We can rest from our labors in the hope that our works will follow us.
I am ready to do a good deal of sleeping in the time that remains to us,
for we may not be able to sleep any to-morrow night," added the
detective as he threw himself on his bed, and was soon fast asleep.

Christy had slept enough the night before and during the morning; and he
went out to take a walk in the town. He had taken off his suit of black,
and put on the costume he had worn from the ship. He was inclined to see
what there was in the town; and he walked about till it was dark, at
which time he found himself in the vicinity of the Hamilton Hotel, the
largest and best appointed in the town. He was dressed very plainly, but
there was nothing shabby in his appearance; and he thought he would
inspect the interior of the hotel.

He began to mount the piazza, when he suddenly halted, and started back
with astonishment, and his hair almost stood on end. Directly in front
of him, and not ten feet distant, sat his uncle, Homer Passford, of
Glenfield, talking with a gentleman in uniform. The lantern that hung
near him enabled him to see the features of the planter, but he could
not see the face of the officer, with whom he was engaged in a very
earnest conversation.

Christy's first impulse was to put a long distance between himself and
his uncle, for his father's brother might identify him in spite of the
color on his face. Such a discovery was likely to prove very annoying to
him, and might render useless the information the detective and himself
had obtained with so much trouble and risk. But the first question that
came into his head was the inquiry as to what his uncle was doing in
Bermuda. He was a Confederate of the most positive type, had done
everything in his power for his government, as he understood it, and was
willing to sacrifice his life and all that he had in the world in its
service.

Colonel Passford must be there on some mission. He was a prominent and
useful man in his State; and he would not have left it without some very
strong motive. The nephew would have given a great deal, and exposed
himself to no little peril, to be able to fathom this motive. He moved
away from the piazza, and went upon it at another place. If he could
hear some of the conversation he might be able to form some idea of the
occasion of his uncle's visit.

Walking along the platform, he obtained a position behind Colonel
Passford, and at the same time saw the face of the person with whom he
was in conversation. He was not a little surprised to discover that the
gentleman was Captain Rombold, commander of the Dornoch. He had hardly
seen this officer, and he had no fear that he would recognize him; and,
if he did, it was of little consequence, for he was there in the
capacity of a servant. He took a vacant chair, turned his back to both
of the speakers, and opened wide his ears. Probably nine-tenths of the
people in the hotel were directly or indirectly concerned in the
business of blockade-running; and secrecy was hardly necessary in that
locality.

"As I say, Captain Rombold, we need more fast steamers, not to run the
blockade, but to prey upon the enemy's commerce. In that way we can
bring the people of the North to their senses, and put this unhallowed
strife on the part of the Federals to an end," said Colonel Passford.

"Well, Colonel, there are ships enough to be had on the other side of
the Atlantic, and your money or your cotton will buy them," added the
naval officer.

"We have been rather unfortunate in running cotton out this last year.
Several steamers and sailing vessels that I fitted out with cotton
myself were captured by my own nephew, who was in command of a small
steamer called the Bronx."

"Of course those things could not be helped," replied Captain Rombold;
"but with the Gateshead and the Kilmarnock, larger and more powerful
steamers than any that have been sent over, you can scour the ocean.
They are ready for you when your money is ready."

"It is ready now, for I have sacrificed my entire fortune for the
purchase of these steamers; and I wait only for a vessel that will take
me to Scotland," replied Colonel Passford.

Christy promptly decided that the steamers mentioned should not be
purchased to prey on the commerce of the United States, if he could
possibly prevent it.




CHAPTER XII

AN IMPRACTICABLE SCHEME


Before the War of the Rebellion the commerce of the United States
exceeded that of any other nation on the globe. The Confederate
steamers, the Sumter, Alabama, Georgia, Florida, and other cruisers,
swept our ships from the ocean, and the country has never regained its
commercial prestige. Christy Passford listened with intense interest to
the conversation between his uncle and the commander of the Dornoch, and
he came to the conclusion that the latter was a naval officer of no
ordinary ability. He evidently believed that the six-gun steamer in his
charge was a command not worthy of his talent.

The Sumter, and some other vessels fitted out as privateers or war
vessels, had already done a great deal of mischief to the shipping of
the Northern States, and the young man fully realized the meaning of his
uncle's intentions. Colonel Passford had been supplied with money by his
government, with what he had raised himself, to purchase larger and more
powerful steamers than had yet been obtained, and Captain Rombold
appeared to be his confidant, with whom he must have been in
communication for a considerable length of time.

Colonel Passford was going to England and Scotland to purchase the
steamers mentioned and recommended as the kind required by his present
companion. Christy could think of no manner in which he could serve his
country so effectually as by preventing, or even delaying, the adding of
these vessels to the navy of the South. But it was a tremendous
undertaking for a young man. His uncle had certainly been very
indiscreet in talking out loud about his plans; but it could hardly have
been supposed that any loyal ears were near enough to hear them, for
even the American consul was not safe in the islands.

Christy had doubled himself up in his chair, and pretended to be asleep,
so that no notice was taken of him by the two gentlemen in conversation.
He continued to listen till he heard a clock strike nine; but he
obtained no further information, except in relation to the details of
the colonel's plans. He was in great haste to get to England to purchase
the vessels, and he had the drafts about him for the purpose. It was a
vast sum, for the prices of desirable steamers had largely advanced
under the demand for them for running the blockade.

"The easiest and quickest way for you to get to Liverpool or Glasgow is
to go to New York, and there take a steamer to either of these ports,"
suggested Captain Rombold.

"I dare not go to New York, for I should certainly be recognized there.
My only brother is one of the most prominent agents of the Yankee
government, and every passenger from Bermuda and Nassau is watched and
dogged by detectives. It would not be prudent for me to go New York, for
some pretext to rob me of the drafts I carry would be found," replied
Homer Passford.

"There may be a steamer from Bermuda in a week or a month, for there is
no regular line," added the naval officer.

"But there are regular lines from Havana, Mexico, Jamaica, and the
Windward Islands," suggested the agent of the Confederate government.

"Very true, and it is not necessary that I should make a port in the
Confederate States before I begin my work on the ocean," said Captain
Rombold. "I have my commission from your government, with full powers to
act, though I desired to make a port in the South, for, as you are
aware, my wife is a native of Georgia, and is at her father's plantation
at the present time. I captured two Yankee vessels off the Azores, and
burned them."

"I have no doubt about your powers; but can you not aid me in getting to
England?" persisted the colonel.

"If you will take the chances, I can, Colonel Passford. If you will go
on board of my ship to-morrow afternoon, and sail with me, I have no
doubt we shall overhaul a steamer bound to England in the course of a
week, for I will get into the track of these vessels."

The agent promptly accepted this proposition, and soon after the
conference ended, though not till the listener had taken himself out of
the way, Christy had turned over in his mind a plan to terminate very
suddenly his uncle's mission to purchase steamers, and to obtain
possession of his drafts. M. Rubempr was adroit enough to accomplish
almost anything, and he intended to have the detective make the
colonel's acquaintance, and induce him to embark with them in the
Eleuthera, pretending that he was going to France himself, and intended
to intercept a French steamer from Progreso, whose course lay but a
short distance south of the Bermudas.

But the plan suggested by Captain Rombold, and adopted by Colonel
Passford, saved him from what the young officer regarded as his duty in
the deception and capture of his uncle. When the Bellevite, while she
was still the yacht of Captain Horatio Passford, had gone to the
vicinity of Mobile, to the home of his father's brother, Homer had done
all in his power to capture the steamer for the use of his government,
and had made war upon her with armed vessels. He had done so
conscientiously, believing it to be his duty to his country. This fact
from the past made it easier for Christy to think of such a thing as the
capture of his uncle, even in a neutral country.

The young man returned to the Atlantic Hotel. He found M. Rubempr still
fast asleep, for his slumbers the night before had been very brief.
He waked him, and told him all that had transpired during the evening,
though not till the detective had ordered supper, which they had not
partaken of so far. He stated the plan by which he had proposed to
himself to prevent the purchase, for the present at least, of the
Gateshead and Kilmarnock.

"Not a practicable plan, Christophe," said the detective, shaking his
head vigorously.

"Why not?" demanded Christy; and he explained the conduct of his uncle
in regard to the Bellevite, when she was on a peaceful errand to convey
her owner's daughter back to her home.

Then he related the attempt of the colonel's son, his cousin Corny,
to capture the Bronx by a piece of wild strategy.

"But I do not object to your scheme on moral grounds," interposed M.
Rubempr. "Have you forgotten the affair of the Trent, when Messrs.
Mason and Slidell were taken out of an English steamer? The British
government made a tremendous tempest, and would certainly have declared
war if the two envoys had not been returned to a British ship-of-war.
The English flag waves over these islands, and they are supposed to be
neutral ground."

"Neutral with a vengeance!" exclaimed Christy.

"If Colonel Passford had been carried off in the manner you thought of,
the United States government would have been compelled to return him to
these islands, with all his drafts and other property. I am very glad
you found it unnecessary to carry out such a plot," said the detective,
as a knock at the door announced that their supper was ready.

As Christy's plan was not in order, would be inutile, the business of
the visitors at the islands was finished. Both of them slept till very
late in the morning, and after breakfast lay down again and slept all
the forenoon. The young man was afraid to go out of the hotel in the
afternoon, fearful that he might meet his uncle. But his companion
walked about the place, and visited the Hamilton, where he again
encountered Captain Rombold, who introduced him to Colonel Passford;
informing him that he was to be his fellow passenger. When the commander
of the Dornoch told him that he might not make a Confederate port for
some weeks, if at all, M. Rubempr decided not to take passage with him.
Of course nothing was said that could be of any service to the
detective, for he had already obtained the information he needed; but he
assured himself that the steamer would sail at the time stated the day
before.

Towards night the detective informed the landlord that he was to go to
St. George's in the evening, paid his bill, and liberally rewarded the
waiters. He had been over to the pier to look after the Eleuthera, and
had found Joseph at his house. The boat was all right; her keeper had
washed her out, and put everything in order on board of her. M. Rubempr
returned to the hotel, and after supper Joseph came for the valises. It
was quite dark when they left the place, and made their way to the pier.
No one asked any questions, and the detective had caused it to be
understood that he had engaged a boatman to take him to St. George's by
water.

They went on board of the boat, and the fisherman assisted them in
getting under way. The liberal skipper gave him another sovereign,
adding that he need not say anything to any person about him and his
servant. Joseph was profuse in his expressions of gratitude, for with so
much money in his pocket he need not go a-fishing again for a month or
more, and protested with all his might that he would not mention them to
anybody.

The night was dark enough to conceal the Eleuthera after she got away
from the shore, but not so dark that the skipper could not find his way
around the reefs to Hogfish Cut. It was high tide, as it had been when
they came inside of the rocks, and the boat went along quite briskly in
the fresh west wind that was still blowing. Without accident or incident
of importance, though the wind was ahead a portion of the way, the boat
reached the Cut at about midnight. She stuck on a reef at this point,
but very lightly, though it required half an hour or more to get her
off. She made no water, and did not appear to be injured.

Without further mishap the Eleuthera passed through the opening in the
reefs, and, taking the bearing of the light on Gibbs Hill, Mr. Gilfleur,
as Christy began to call him from this time, laid his course to the
south-west. The Chateaugay was not to show any lights, and there was
nothing but the compass to depend upon; but a light was necessary to
enable the skipper to see it. The lantern was used for this purpose, but
it was carefully concealed in the stern.

"We are all right now, Mr. Passford; and you may turn in for about three
hours, for I don't think we shall sight the ship in less than that
time," said the detective, as he put on his overcoat, for the night air
was rather chilly, and his companion had already done so.

"I have no occasion to turn in, for I have slept enough at that hotel to
last me for a week," replied Christy. "It looks now as though we had
made a good job of this visit to the Bermudas."

"I think there can be no doubt of that, Mr. Passford; and there is an
unpleasant surprise in store for your worthy uncle," said Mr. Gilfleur,
chuckling as he spoke.

"And perhaps for your accomplished friend Captain Rombold. We have both
heard him say that he was regularly commissioned as a commander in the
Confederate navy, and that his ship is armed with all proper authority
to capture, burn, and destroy the mercantile marine of the United
States."

"But Captain Rombold is an ex-officer of the Royal navy, and you may
depend upon it he will fight. There will be a naval battle somewhere in
the vicinity of these islands to-morrow, and Captain Chantor will find
that it will be no boy's play," added Mr. Gilfleur.

"My father told me that he was a very able officer, and had already
rendered good service, good enough to procure his rapid promotion.
I liked the looks of his officers and crew, and I have no doubt they
will give a good account of themselves."

"I hope so, for I am to be an American citizen: I have filed my first
papers."

"I doubt not you will make a good and useful citizen; and your wonderful
skill as a detective will make you very serviceable to your new
country."

The conversation was continued for full three hours longer; at the end
of which time they saw a dark body ahead on the port bow, and heard some
rather gentle screams from a steam whistle.




CHAPTER XIII

AT THE END OF THE CHASE


Mr. Gilfleur estimated that the Eleuthera was at least fifteen miles
from the light, and the whistles were not loud enough to be heard at
that distance. Neither of the voyagers had any doubt that the dark mass
ahead was the Chateaugay, and the skipper headed the boat for her. If it
were not the ship that was expecting to pick up the visitors to the
island, she would not be whistling in mid-ocean; and any other vessel
would carry a head and side lights.

In half an hour more, for the Chateaugay appeared to have stopped her
screw, the boat was within speaking distance, and the hail of Christy
was answered. When she came alongside the steamer, the accommodation
ladder was rigged out, several seamen came on board, and the voyagers
hastened to the deck of the ship. Captain Chantor grasped the hand of
the lieutenant, and then of the detective.

"I had some doubts whether or not I should ever see you again," said the
commander. "If they had discovered that one of you was a United States
naval officer, they would have mobbed you."

"As they did the American consul while we were there," added Mr.
Gilfleur.

"You will tell me of that later," replied the captain, as he directed
the officer of the watch to hoist in the boat and secure it as it had
been before. "Now, come down into my cabin, and tell me your news, if
you have seen something, even if you have not done anything," he added.

"We were not expected to capture the islands, or make any demonstration;
and we have been in only one fight," replied Christy, to whom the
commander turned as soon as they were seated at the table.

"Then you have been in a fight?" queried the captain.

"Only with the fists. We defended the United States consul when he was
hard pressed, and we got him safely into his office by the time the
police came upon the scene," continued Christy. "But we have important
information. Mr. Gilfleur will give it to you in full."

"Pardon; but I very much prefer that Mr. Passford should be the
historian of the expedition," interposed the detective.

"But my friend and companion has been the principal actor; and I am sure
I could not have done anything to obtain the information without him,"
protested the lieutenant.

"Then it is all the more proper that you should tell the story, Mr.
Passford, and spare Mr. Gilfleur's modesty," said the captain.

It was agreed that Christy should be the narrator of the results of the
expedition, and he first described the trip to Hamilton in the boat.
Then he told about the assault on the consul, and in what manner they
had defended him.

"I ought to inform you at once that the Dornoch was at St. George's
harbor, and that she was to sail yesterday afternoon at five o'clock,"
said Christy. "But she is bound to the southward, and her first mission
is to intercept an English or French steamer, and put a Confederate
commissioner, wishing to get to England, on board of her. This agent of
the South happens to be my uncle."

"The brother of Captain Passford?"

"Yes, Captain; and he is provided with funds to purchase two
vessels--steamers, to be fitted up as men-of-war."

"Then if he is your father's brother, you think, perhaps, that we ought
not to molest him," suggested the captain.

"Why, his graceless nephew even considered a scheme to entice him on
board of our boat, under pretence of finding a passage to England for
him," interposed Mr. Gilfleur, laughing heartily at the suggestion of
the commander.

"I believe in treating him like a Christian and a gentleman, for he is
both of these; but I do not believe in letting him fill up the
Confederate navy with foreign-built steamers, to ruin the commerce of my
country," replied the young officer with spirit. "My father would no
more believe in it than I do. You should treat him, Captain Chantor,
exactly as though he was nobody's brother or uncle."

The commander clapped his hands as though he was of the same opinion as
his passenger, and Christy proceeded with his narrative, describing
their visit to the Dornoch and the blockade-runners at St. George's and
Hamilton. The captain was very much amused at his interview in French
with Captain Rombold, and his conversations with officers of other
vessels they had boarded. The detective took his papers from the belt,
and read the names of the steamers, and the ports for which they were
bound.

"They were a very obliging lot of blockade-runners," said the captain,
laughing heartily at the freedom with which they had spoken.

"I don't suppose there is an American in the Bermudas at the present
time besides Mr. Alwayn, the consul," added the detective. "The
blockade-runners have the islands all to themselves, or at least the two
towns on them. They have plenty of money, and they spend it without
stint or measure. They make business good, and the inhabitants take
excellent care of them. It is no place for Americans; for everybody's
sympathy is with the South. It seems to me that there is no danger of
talking about their business anywhere in the islands."

"They were speaking all the time to a Frenchman, who had considerable
difficulty in using the English language," said Christy. "All the talk
with Captain Rombold was in French."

The narrative was finished, and discussed at great length. The order had
been given to the officer of the deck to go ahead at full speed, making
the course south-east, after the Eleuthera had been hoisted on board and
secured.

"It looks decidedly like a battle some time to-morrow," said the
commander thoughtfully.

"No doubt of it," added Christy.

"If the Dornoch sailed at five o'clock yesterday afternoon, according to
the arrangement, she must be over a hundred miles from the islands at
this moment," continued Captain Chantor thoughtfully, as he consulted
his watch. "We can only conjecture his course, and that is the important
thing for us to know. His first objective point is to intercept a
steamer bound to England or France. If he runs directly to the southward
he may miss the first one."

"If I were in his place I should run to the eastward, so as not to fall
astern of any possible steamer bound to England," added Christy.

"That was the thought that first came to my mind," replied the
commander, as he brought out a chart and spread it on the table. "For
that reason I gave out the course to the south-east."

A careful examination of the chart and an extended calculation followed.
It was agreed between the two naval officers that the Dornoch would go
to the eastward till she fell into the track of vessels bound to the
north-east from Jamaica, Cuban ports, or Mexico, and then put her head
to the south-west. It was four o'clock in the morning, the cruiser had
been out nine hours, and the captain dotted the chart where he believed
she was at that moment.

"She has made all the easting necessary, and by this time she has laid
her course about south-west," continued the commander. "Captain Rombold
will not hurry his ship, for he has no occasion to do so, and he will
naturally save his coal. If our calculations are correct, we shall see
the Dornoch about noon to-day;" and he pointed to the conjunction of the
two courses as he had drawn them on a diagram. "That is all; and we had
better turn in."

A sharp lookout was maintained during the hours of the morning watch,
for the conjectures and calculations of the captain might prove to be
all wrong. It was possible that the Dornoch had proceeded directly to
the southward, after making less easting than was anticipated. Nothing
was seen of any steamer. But in the middle of the forenoon watch a long
and rather faint streak of black was discovered in the east. The Dornoch
was not exactly a blockade-runner, and doubtless she used soft coal,
though anthracite was beginning to come into use in other than American
steamers, for its smoke was less likely to betray them.

"I think we have figured this matter out correctly, Mr. Passford," said
Captain Chantor, as they gazed at the attenuated streak of black.

"Captain Rombold is a very competent officer, and you and he seem to
have agreed in your calculations," added Christy.

The steamer to the eastward soon came in sight; she and the Chateaugay
were headed for the same point, and by noon they were in plain sight of
each other. In another hour they were within hailing distance.

"That is not the Dornoch," said Christy decidedly.

"No; she is much larger than the Dornoch," added Mr. Gilfleur.

"I am disappointed," replied the captain.

The steamer showed the British flag, and went on her way to the
south-west. The Chateaugay continued on her course without change till
eight bells in the afternoon watch, when a heavier volume of smoke was
descried in the north-east. No change was made in the course, and at the
beginning of the second dog watch the craft from which the smoke issued
could be seen with the naked eye. She was headed to the south-west, and
it was evident that her course would carry her to the westward of the
Chateaugay. The darkness soon settled down upon the ocean, and the port
light of the stranger showed itself over the starboard quarter of the
ship, proving that it crossed the wake of the other.

The action, if the steamer proved to be the Dornoch, must be deferred
till the next morning. It was impossible to determine what she was in
the darkness, and Captain Chantor ordered the course to be changed to
correspond with that of the stranger, which manifested no disposition to
get away from her. All night the two vessels maintained the same
relative position, and both were making about ten knots an hour.
At daylight in the morning the commander and Christy were on the
quarter-deck, anxiously observing the stranger. She was carefully
examined with the glasses.

"That is the Dornoch!" exclaimed Mr. Gilfleur, after a long inspection
with the glass.

"No doubt of it," added Christy.

"You are sure of it?" inquired the commander.

"We have both been on board of her, and I am perfectly sure of it,"
replied Christy, who proceeded to explain the details by which he
identified her; and the captain was entirely satisfied.

The Dornoch was not more than two miles distant from the Chateaugay, for
in the early morning hours the course had been changed a couple of
points, to bring her nearer for examination. It was now a chase, and the
chief engineer was instructed to give the ship her best speed. It was
soon evident that the Dornoch was hurrying her pace, for her
smoke-stacks were vomiting forth immense inky clouds.

"I doubt if Captain Rombold cares to fight with my uncle on board," said
Christy. "He can see that the Chateaugay is of heavier metal than the
Dornoch."

"I should suppose that it would be his first care, as perhaps he regards
it as his first duty, to put his passenger on board of a steamer bound
to England," added the commander. "It appears to be a question of speed
just now."

The Chateaugay was driven to her utmost, and it was soon clear that she
was too much for her antagonist. At two bells in the forenoon watch she
was about a mile abreast of the chase, which had not yet shown her
colors. The flag of the United States floated at the peak, and the
commander ordered a shot to be fired across the forefoot of the Dornoch.

This was an order for her to come to; but, instead of doing so, she
flung out the Confederate flag, and fired a shotted gun, the ball from
which whizzed over the heads of the Chateaugay's officers on the
quarter-deck.




CHAPTER XIV

AN EASY VICTORY


The shot from the Dornoch, which had evidently been intended to hit
the Chateaugay, sufficiently indicated the purpose of her commander.
On board of either steamer there could be no doubt in regard to the
character of the other. Captain Chantor gave the order to beat to
quarters, and in a few moments every officer and seaman was at his
station.

Christy Passford went to his stateroom, buckled on his sword belt, and
prepared his revolvers for use; for though he held no position on board
of the Chateaugay, he did not intend to remain idle during the action,
and was ready to serve as a volunteer. Mr. Gilfleur came to the open
door of his room, and seemed to be somewhat astonished to observe his
preparations.

"You appear to be ready for duty, Mr. Passford, though you are not
attached to this ship," said he.

"I have no position on board of the Chateaugay; but it would be quite
impossible for me to remain inactive while my country needs my services,
even as a supernumerary," replied Christy.

"But what am I to do?" asked the detective, with a puzzled expression on
his face.

"Nothing at all, Mr. Gilfleur; I regard you as a non-combatant, and I
think you had better remain in your stateroom," replied Christy. "But I
must go on deck."

The Frenchman followed him to the quarter-deck, and seemed to be
inclined to take a hand in the conflict. He desired to be an American
citizen, and possibly he believed he could win his title to this
distinction in a battle better than by any other means. But he had no
naval training, could be of no service at the guns, and was more likely
to be in the way of others than to accomplish anything of value. It was
a needless risk, and the captain suggested that his life was too
valuable to his adopted country for him to expose himself before his
mission had been accomplished. He stepped aside, but he was not willing
to go below.

"I desire to offer my services as a volunteer, Captain Chanter," said
Christy, saluting the commander. "If you will assign me to any position
on deck, though it be nothing more than a station at one of the guns,
I will endeavor to do my duty."

"I have no doubt you would do your whole duty, Mr. Passford," replied
the captain, taking him by the hand. "You can be of more service to me
as an adviser than as a hand at a gun. It is plain enough that the
commander of the Dornoch intends to fight as long as there is anything
left of him or his ship. Your report of him gives me that assurance."

"I suppose by this time, Captain Chantor, you have arranged your plan
for the action," added Christy, looking curiously into the face of the
commander, though he had resolved to give no advice and to make no
suggestions unless directly requested to do so.

"I suppose the only way is to pound the enemy till he has had enough of
it, using such strategy as the occasion may require. According to your
report we outweigh her in metal, and we have proved that we can outdo
her in speed," replied Captain Chantor.

"But the Dornoch will have the privilege of pounding the Chateaugay at
the same time," said Christy in a very low tone, so that no one could
hear him.

"That is very true; of course we must expect to take as good as we
send."

"But then what use shall you make of your advantage in speed and weight
of metal?" asked the passenger very quietly. "We both believe that there
is humanity in war as well as in peace."

At that moment a shot passed under the counter of the ship, and buried
itself in the water a cable's length beyond her.

"That is good practice, Captain Chantor," said Christy. "That shot was
aimed at your rudder; and I have no doubt Captain Rombold is seeking to
cripple you by shooting it away."

"I believe in humanity in war; but I do not see where it comes in just
now, except in a very general way," replied the captain.

"If the Dornoch cripples you, and then takes her own time to knock the
Chateaugay to pieces, it will amount to the sacrifice of many lives,"
suggested the unattached officer.

"I should be very glad to have your opinion, Mr. Passford," added the
commander.

"I certainly do not desire to thrust my opinion upon you, Captain
Chantor; but as you have asked for it, I will express myself freely."

"Thank you, Mr. Passford."

"I should adopt the tactics of Commodore Dupont at Port Royal."

"In other words, you would keep sailing around the Dornoch."

"Precisely so. I would not give him a shot till I was out of the reach
of his broadside guns."

"And then pound her with the midship gun. That is my idea exactly.
Quartermaster, strike one bell."

"One bell, sir."

"Strike four bells, quartermaster," added the captain.

"Four bells, sir."

The Chateaugay was soon going ahead at her best speed, headed directly
away from the Dornoch, and it would have looked to an observer as though
she was running away from her. At any rate, the enemy made this
interpretation of her movement, and immediately gave chase, opening fire
upon the ship with her bow guns. Presently she fired her heavy midship
gun, the shot from which would have made havoc if it had hit the mark.
It was soon evident that the enemy's speed had been overrated, for the
Chateaugay gained rapidly upon her. A shot from her heavy gun knocked
off the upper works on one side of the Eleuthera, but did no other
damage.

At the end of two hours even the heavy gun of the enemy could not carry
its shot to the chase. It would have been easy enough to run away from
the Dornoch; but this was by no means the intention of Captain Chantor.
He was very cool and self-possessed, and he did not ask his passenger
for any further suggestions. He understood his business thoroughly,
though he had at first been disposed to make shorter work of the action
than he had now adopted. As soon as he had obtained his distance, he
gave the order to bring the ship about. Thus far he had not fired a gun,
and the enemy had apparently had it all his own way.

The midship was in readiness to initiate the work of the Chateaugay. At
the proper moment, the gunner himself sighted the piece, the lock string
was operated, and the hull of the ship shook under the discharge.
Christy had a spy-glass to his eye, levelled at the Dornoch. She had
just begun to change her course to conform to that of the Chateaugay,
and the observer on the quarter-deck discovered the splinters flying
about her forecastle. The shot appeared to have struck at the heel of
the bowsprit.

"That was well done, Captain Chantor," said Christy.

"Excellently well done; but Mr. Turreton will improve when he gets his
range a little better," replied the captain.

At this moment the report of the Dornoch's great gun was heard again;
but the shot fell considerably short of the Chateaugay. At the same time
she was crowding on all the steam she could make, and Captain Chantor
was manoeuvring his ship so as to maintain his distance. The midship
gun was kept as busy as possible, and Mr. Turreton improved his practice
very materially. Fought in this manner, the action was not very
exciting. The ship followed her circular course, varying it only to
maintain the distance. For several hours the unequal battle continued.
The mainmast of the Dornoch had been shot away, and Christy, with his
glass, saw several of the huge shots crash into her bow.

It was evident, after pounding her a good part of the day, that the
enemy could not stand much more of this punishment. At eight bells in
the afternoon watch she hauled down her flag. Christy had done nothing
but watch the Dornoch, and report to Captain Chantor. As her flag came
down, he discovered that her condition, after the last shot, was
becoming desperate.

"She has settled considerably in the water, Captain Chantor, and that is
evidently the reason why she hauled down her flag," said Christy, just
as the ship's company were cheering at the disappearance of the
Confederate flag from the peak of the enemy.

"I was confident she could not endure much more such hulling as Mr.
Turreton has been bestowing upon her," replied the commander, after he
had given the order to make the course directly towards the Dornoch.

Christy continued to watch the enemy's vessel. The ship's company were
employed in stretching a sail over the bow, evidently for the purpose of
stopping in whole or partially a dangerous leak in that part of the
vessel; and she seemed to be in immediate peril of going to the bottom.
They were also getting their boats ready, and the situation must have
been critical. In a short time the Chateaugay was within hailing
distance of her prize.

"Dornoch, ahoy!" shouted Captain Chantor, mounted on the port rail. "Do
you surrender?"

"I do," replied Captain Rombold; for Christy recognized his voice. "Our
ship is sinking!"

By this time the havoc made by the big gun of the Chateaugay could be
seen and estimated. The bow of the steamer had been nearly all shot
away. Her bowsprit and her mainmast had gone by the board. Her bulwarks
were stove in, and most of her boats appeared to have been knocked to
pieces. In spite of the efforts to keep her afloat, it was plain that
she was sinking; and Christy could see her settling in the water. The
boats of the victor were promptly lowered, and crews sent away in them
to the relief of the imperilled enemy. There were not more than sixty
men on board of her, including the officers; and they were soon
transferred to the deck of the Chateaugay.

Christy watched the boats with the most intense interest as they came
alongside the ship; for he knew that his Uncle Homer was on board of the
Dornoch, if the plans arranged at the hotel had been fully carried out.
Captain Rombold came in the last boat, and Colonel Passford was with
him. His nephew did not care to meet him just then. The Confederate
commissioner came on deck; and Christy looked at him with interest from
behind the mizzenmast. His expression testified to his grief and sorrow
at the early failure of his mission. The young lieutenant could pity the
man, while he rejoiced at his ill success in building up the navy of the
Confederacy.

His attention was drawn off from his uncle by the sudden sinking of the
Dornoch; and the vortex that followed her disappearance extended to the
Chateaugay. Most of the officers and seamen had brought off the whole or
a part of their clothing and other articles.

When Captain Rombold came on deck, Captain Chantor politely saluted him,
and returned the sword he surrendered to him. Colonel Passford kept
close to him; and Christy thought he looked dazed and vacant.

"While I must rejoice in my own good fortune, Captain Rombold, I can
sympathize personally with a brave commander who has lost his ship,"
said Captain Chantor, taking the hand of the late commander of the
Dornoch.

"I thank you for your consideration, Captain. I am sorry to have been so
easy a victim to your strategy; and I can reciprocate by congratulating
you on your victory, though your better guns enabled you to knock my
ship to pieces at your leisure," replied Captain Rombold.

He then introduced Colonel Passford, and both of them were invited to
the captain's cabin. The wounded were turned over to the surgeon, and
the crew were sent below. It was clearly impossible for the ship to
continue on her voyage with such an addition to her numbers; and the
Chateaugay was at once headed back to New York.




CHAPTER XV

THE GENTLEMAN WITH A GRIZZLY BEARD


The addition of about sixty persons to the full complement of the ship's
company of the Chateaugay made a considerable crowd on board of her; but
accommodations were provided for all, and in three days the ship would
deliver her human freight to the authorities in New York. The Dornoch
had gone to the bottom with all her valuable cargo; but her captors
would be remunerated in prize-money by the government, so that in a
material point of view she was not lost to them, and there was one less
cruiser to prey upon the commerce of the loyal nation.

Captain Rombold and Colonel Passford remained in the cabin all the rest
of the day; but the next morning both of them went on deck to take the
fresh air. Christy and Mr. Gilfleur were in the waist, and noticed them
as soon as they appeared. They had had some conversation the evening
before in regard to confronting the two most important prisoners, though
without arriving at a conclusion.

"Of course I must meet my uncle," said Christy. "I am not inclined to
skulk and keep out of sight rather than meet him. Though I have assisted
in doing him and his cause a great deal of mischief, I have done it in
the service of my country; and I have no excuses to offer, and no
apologies to make."

"I was not thinking of excusing myself, or apologizing for what I have
done," replied the detective quite earnestly. "That is not the point I
desire to make. Since I went to New York I have looked upon your country
as my own; and I would do as much to serve her as I ever would have done
for France."

"What is your point, Mr. Gilfleur?" asked Christy.

"I do not object to your fraternizing with your uncle, Mr. Passford, if
you are so disposed," continued the Frenchman; "but the case is quite
different with me. In the hotel at St. George's you were not presented
to Captain Rombold, and you did not allow the Confederate commissioner
to see and identify you. Neither of these gentlemen recognized you; but
the captain of the Dornoch would certainly know me, for I talked with
him a long time."

"Suppose both of them know us: what difference will that make?" demanded
the young lieutenant.

"It will explain to them in what manner we obtained our knowledge of the
force and weight of metal of the Dornoch. While we had as good a right
to be on shore in the Bermudas as the Confederates, if we were
recognized our method of operations would be betrayed, and in my opinion
that would be very bad policy, especially as we are to adopt the same
strategy in the Bahamas."

"I see; and I agree with you, Mr. Gilfleur, that it will be good policy
to keep our own counsel in regard to what we have done in the islands,"
added Christy, as he saw Captain Chantor approaching him.

"Good-morning, Mr. Passford. You and your uncle do not appear to be on
very friendly terms, for I notice that you do not speak to each other."

"Our relations have always been friendly, even while I was in a rebel
prison; but I have not happened to meet him since he came on board of
the Chateaugay."

"I will present you to him as his nephew, if you desire me to do so,"
continued the commander with a smile.

"I thank you, Captain: I intended to speak to him when an opportunity
came. But you will pardon me if I make a suggestion without being asked
to do so," said Christy, speaking in a low tone; and he proceeded to
state what had passed between him and Mr. Gilfleur. "I hope you have not
mentioned the fact that Mr. Gilfleur and myself have been in the
Bermudas."

"I have not, for it came to my mind that it would be very unwise to do
so," replied the captain. "Besides, I was not at all inclined to tell
Captain Rombold that I knew all about his ship, her size, the number of
her ship's company, and the weight of his guns. A man does not feel just
right when he finds he has been made the victim of a bit of strategy;
and I was disposed to spare his feelings. He charges his misfortune
altogether to his antiquated steamer, her failure in her promised speed,
and the neglect of the Confederate commissioners to provide him with a
suitable vessel."

"Mr. Gilfleur will keep out of the captain's sight during the run to New
York; but I was acting as a servant when we met him, and did not sit at
the same table. I will speak to my uncle now."

Captain Chantor attended him to the quarter-deck, where the commissioner
was taking his morning walk. They fell in behind him as he was moving
aft, so that he did not observe his nephew.

"Colonel Passford, I have a young gentleman on board of my ship who
bears your name; allow me to present to you Lieutenant Christopher
Passford, who is simply a passenger on the Chateaugay," said the
captain, directing the attention of the commissioner to the young man.

"My nephew!" exclaimed Colonel Passford, as he recognized Christy, and
extended his hand to him.

"I am very glad to see you, Uncle Homer, though I am sorry to meet you
under present circumstances," replied the nephew, taking the offered
hand. "I hope you are very well, sir."

"Not very well, Christy; and I am not likely to improve in health in a
Yankee prison," answered the colonel with a very sickly smile.

"Probably my father will be able to obtain a parole for you, and he will
be extremely glad to have you with him at Bonnydale," added Christy.

"The last time I met you, Christy, you looked upon me as a
non-combatant, released me, and sent me on shore."

"I am not sure that I did wisely at that time."

"I was not taken in arms; and I could hardly be regarded as a prisoner
of war."

"But you were engaged in the Confederate service, Uncle Homer, for you
were shipping cotton for the benefit of the cause."

"But I was merely a passenger on board of the Dornoch."

"Yet you are a Confederate commissioner, seeking a passage in some
vessel bound to England, for the purpose of purchasing steamers to serve
in your navy," added Christy with considerable energy, and without
thinking that he was in danger of compromising himself and his companion
in the visit to the Bermudas.

Colonel Passford stopped short, and gazed into the face of his nephew.
He appeared to be utterly confounded by the statement, though he did not
deny the truth of it.

"Without admitting the truth of what you say, Christy, I desire to ask
upon what your statement is founded," said the commissioner, after some
hesitation.

"As you are on one side in this great conflict, and I am on the other,
you must excuse me for not answering your question," replied Christy
very promptly, and declining to commit himself any farther.

"It is very sad to have our family divided so that we should be enemies,
however friendly we may be personally," added Colonel Passford in a tone
that indicated his profound grief and sorrow.

"I know how useless it is for us to discuss the question, Uncle Homer,
for I am sure you are as honest in your views as my father is in his."

"I have no desire to argue the question; but I believe the North will
come to its senses in good time--when the grass grows in the streets of
New York, if not before."

"You will have an opportunity to see for yourself, Uncle Homer, that New
York was never so busy, never so prosperous, as at the present time; and
the same may be truthfully said of all the cities of the North," replied
Christy with spirit.

"Sail, ho!" shouted the lookout forward.

An hour later the sail was reported to be a steamer, bound to the
westward, and her streak of black smoke indicated that she was English.
She was low in the water, had two smoke-stacks, and presented a very
rakish appearance. She was a vessel of not more than eight hundred tons,
and her build was quite peculiar. It was evident that she was a very
fast steamer. But she seemed to have no suspicions in regard to the
character of the Chateaugay.

Christy left his uncle, and went to the ward room, where he found Mr.
Gilfleur in his stateroom. He desired the advice of the Frenchman before
he said anything to the captain in regard to the approaching sail.
Together they had looked over all the steamers in the harbor of St.
George's, and those on board of them were not disposed to conceal the
fact that they were to run the blockade as soon as they could get over
to the coast of the United States.

"What have you been doing to yourself, Mr. Gilfleur?" asked Christy, as
soon as he discovered the detective, for he had completely changed his
appearance, and looked like an elderly gentleman of fifty, with a full
beard, grizzled with the snows of many winters.

"I don't care to be shut up in this stateroom during the voyage to New
York," replied the Frenchman with a pleasant laugh. "This is one of my
useful costumes, and I don't believe Captain Rombold will recognize me
now."

"I am very sure he will not," added Christy, looking him over, and
wondering at the skill which could so completely change his appearance.

"I want you to see the steamer which is approaching, bound to the
westward. If I am not mistaken, we have seen her before."

"I am all ready, and I will go on deck with you; but you must contrive
to let the captain know who I am, or he will order me below, or have too
much to say about me," replied the detective, as he followed Christy to
the quarter-deck.

Colonel Passford and Captain Rombold had seated themselves abaft the
mizzenmast, and seemed to be interested in the reports respecting the
approaching steamer. Christy called Captain Chantor to the rail, and
explained what the commander had already scented as a mystery in regard
to the gentleman with the grizzled beard. He laughed heartily as he
gazed at the apparent stranger, and declared that he thought he might be
another Confederate commissioner, for he looked respectable and
dignified enough to be one.

"I think that steamer is the Cadet, Captain Chantor; and I have brought
Mr. Gilfleur on deck to take a look at her."

The Frenchman had no doubt the steamer was the Cadet, for she was
peculiar enough in her build to be identified among a thousand vessels
of her class. For some time they discussed the character of the vessel,
and minutely examined her build and rig. Neither of them had any doubt
as to her identity, and the passenger reported the result of the
conference to the commander, who immediately ordered the American flag
to be displayed at the peak; and gave the command to beat to quarters.

"We are over six hundred miles from any Confederate port, Mr. Passford,"
said the captain. "I should not like to have one of my captures
surrendered to her owners."

"Of course you have your law books in your cabin, Captain; but I have
studied them so much that I can quote literally from one bearing on this
case," continued Christy. "'The sailing for a blockaded port, knowing it
to be blockaded, is, it seems, such an act as may charge the party with
a breach of the blockade.' Besides the evidence of her course, and that
of the nature of her cargo, there are two witnesses to the declaration
of the captain that he was intending to run into Wilmington."

"She has come about, and is running away from you, Captain!" exclaimed
the passenger, who was the first on the quarter-deck to notice this
change.

The commander ordered a gun to be fired across her bow, for the Cadet
was hardly more than a quarter of a mile from the Chateaugay. No notice
was taken of the shot, and a moment later the midship gun sent a shot
which carried away her pilot-house and disabled the wheel.




CHAPTER XVI

AMONG THE BAHAMAS


"I am sorry to disturb you, gentlemen, but I feel obliged to ask you to
retire to my cabin until this affair is settled," said Captain Chantor,
addressing Colonel Passford and Captain Rombold.

"I beg your pardon, Captain Chantor, but do you consider that you have a
right to capture that steamer?" asked the late commander of the Dornoch,
who seemed to be very much disturbed at the proceedings of his captor.

"Undoubtedly; and I have no doubt I shall be able to procure her
condemnation on the ground that she is loaded for a Confederate port,
no other than Wilmington, and has the 'guilty intention' to run the
blockade."

"I don't see where you could have obtained the information that enables
you to make sure of her condemnation at the very first sight of her,"
replied the Confederate officer.

"Well, Captain Rombold, if I succeed in proving my position before the
court, out of the mouth of Captain Vickers, her commander, would that
satisfy you?" asked the commander with a cheerful smile. "But you must
excuse me from discussing the matter to any greater length, for I have a
duty to perform at the present time."

The Chateaugay was going ahead at full speed when the two gentlemen
retired from the quarter-deck. She stopped her screw within hail of the
Cadet. Her crew were clearing away the wreck of the pilot-house; but the
destruction of her steering gear forward did not permit her to keep
under way, though hands were at work on the quarter-deck putting her
extra wheel in order for use. Of course it was plain enough to the
captain of the Cadet that the Chateaugay, after the mischief she had
done with a single shot, could knock the steamer all to pieces in a few
minutes.

The first cutter, in charge of Mr. Birdwing, the executive officer, was
sent on board of the disabled steamer, and Christy was invited to take a
place in the boat. Captain Vickers was a broken-hearted man when he
realized that his vessel was actually captured by a United States
man-of-war.

"Do you surrender, Captain Vickers?" said Mr. Birdwing, as he saluted
the disconsolate commander.

"How did you know my name?" demanded he gruffly.

"That is of no consequence, Captain Vickers. You will oblige me by
answering my question. Do you surrender?" continued the lieutenant.

"I don't know that I can help myself, for this steamer is not armed, and
I can make no resistance," replied the captain. "I had no idea that ship
was a Yankee gunboat."

"But we had an idea that this was a blockade-runner," added Mr.
Birdwing, as he proceeded to take formal possession of the vessel, and
called for her papers.

An examination was made into the character of the cargo, which consisted
largely of arms and ammunition. The extra wheel was soon in working
order. Before noon a prize crew was put on board, and both vessels were
headed for New York. In three days more the Chateaugay was at anchor off
the Navy Yard, with the Cadet near her. The return of the ship caused a
great deal of surprise, and one of the first persons to come on board of
her was Captain Passford. He gave his son his usual warm welcome.

Christy gave his father the narrative of the brief voyage, and astounded
him with the information that his brother was on board. The two brothers
had not met since they parted at the plantation near Mobile, and the
meeting was as tender as it was sad; but both of them refrained from
saying anything unpleasant in regard to the war. The prisoners were
taken from the Chateaugay by a tender, and conveyed to Fort Lafayette;
but Captain Passford soon obtained a parole for his brother, which he
consented to give for a limited period.

"I suppose the Chateaugay will sail again by to-morrow, Christy; but you
will have time to go home and see your mother and sister. I am so busy
that I cannot go, and you must take Uncle Homer with you," said his
father.

They landed on the New York side, and took a carriage for the station.
Perhaps the streets of the great city were never more crowded with all
kinds of vehicles, and especially with wagons loaded with merchandise of
all kinds. They passed up Broadway, and Colonel Passford was silent as
he witnessed the marvellous activity of the city in the midst of a great
war.

"I think you will not be able to find any grass growing in the streets
of New York, Uncle Homer," said Christy, as they passed the Park, where
the crowd seemed to be greater than elsewhere.

"There is certainly no grass here, and I am surprised to see that the
city is as busy as ever," replied the commissioner in a subdued tone.
"We have been told at the South that business was paralyzed in the
cities of the North, except what little was created by the war."

"The war makes a vast amount of business, Uncle Homer," added Christy.

But the gentleman from the South was not disposed to talk, and he soon
relapsed into silence. Mrs. Passford and Florry were very much
astonished to see Christy again so soon, and even more so to meet Uncle
Homer; but his welcome was cordial, and nothing was said about the
exciting topic of the day. The visitor was treated like a friend, and
not an enemy, and everything was done to make him forget that he was not
in his own home.

Early the next morning the young lieutenant hastened to report on board
of the Chateaugay, where Mr. Gilfleur had remained, though he had
divested himself of his disguise as soon as Captain Rombold was conveyed
to other quarters. They were kept very busy that day giving their
depositions in regard to the character of the Cadet, and of the
admissions of Captain Vickers in regard to his intention to run the
blockade. The ship had been coaled, and the next day she sailed again.
She gave the Bermudas a wide berth, for she had another mission now,
though she could probably have picked up one or two more of the
blockade-runners Christy and his companion had seen in the harbor of St.
George's.

Four days from Sandy Hook, very early in the morning, Abaco light was
seen; and about fifty miles south of it was Nassau, on the island of New
Providence, a favorite resort for blockade-runners at that time. The
mission of the detective was at this port. Christy had again volunteered
to be his companion, and they desired to get into the place as they had
done in the Bermudas, without attracting the attention of any one, and
especially not of those engaged in loading or fitting out vessels for
the ports of the South.

As soon as the light was discovered, Captain Chantor ordered the course
of the ship to be changed to east; and till eight bells in the afternoon
watch she continued to steam away from the Great Abaco Island. It was
his intention to avoid being seen, though there was a chance to fall in
with a blockade-runner. Standing to the south-west the last part of the
day, the light at the Hole in the Wall, the southern point of Great
Abaco Island, was made out in the evening. South-east of this point is
the northern end of Eleuthera Island, where the Egg Island light could
be seen. This was the locality where Mr. Gilfleur had decided to begin
upon his mission.

His boat had been repaired by the carpenter after the shot from the
Dornoch struck it, and it was now in as good condition as it had ever
been. At eleven o'clock in the evening the Eleuthera was lowered into
the water, with a supply of provisions and water, and such clothing and
other articles as might be needed, on board. The weather was as
favorable as it could be, with a good breeze from the north-west.

"Now, Mr. Gilfleur, I hope you will bring back as important information
as you did from the Bermudas," said the captain, when the adventurers
were ready to go on board of the boat.

"I hope so myself; but I don't know," replied the Frenchman. "I expect
to find the Ovidio at Nassau; and, like the Dornoch, she is intended for
a man-of-war. Mr. Passford and I will do the best we can."

"How long do you mean to be absent on this business?"

"About three days, as well as I can judge, though I have not had a
chance to look over the ground. I have no doubt there are
blockade-runners there, and we shall ascertain what we can in regard to
them."

"I shall expect to pick you up to the eastward of the Hole in the Wall,
and on the fourth night from the present time," added the captain. "You
know that the navigation of this region is very dangerous."

"I am aware of it; but I have been here before, and I provided myself
with a good chart in New York. I have studied it very attentively, and I
have the feeling that I can make my way without any difficulty," replied
Mr. Gilfleur confidently.

Christy had already taken his place in the boat, and the detective soon
followed him. It seemed something like an old story, after his
experience in the Bermudas. The Eleuthera was cast off, the captain
wished them a safe and prosperous voyage to their destination. The
mainsail had been set, and the breeze soon wafted the boat away from the
ship. The Chateaugay started her screw, and headed off to the eastward
again, on the lookout for blockade-runners.

"Here is a light ahead," said Christy, after his companion had set the
jib, and taken the helm.

"That is Egg Island light, about forty miles from Nassau. Our course is
south-west, which gives us a fair wind," replied the skipper. "Now, Mr.
Passford, you can do as you did on our former voyage in the Eleuthera:
turn in and sleep till morning."

"That would not be fair. I will take my trick at the helm, as it seems
to be plain sailing, and you can have your nap first," suggested
Christy.

"No; I slept all the afternoon in anticipation of to-night, and I could
not sleep if I tried," the skipper insisted. "By the way, Mr. Passford,
I am somewhat afraid that the name of our boat may get us into trouble."

"Why so?" asked the other curiously.

"The island on our port hand is Eleuthera, about forty miles long. Of
course it is well known at Nassau, and it may cause people to ask us
some hard questions. We may even stumble upon the boat's former owner,
who would claim her."

"We could buy her, or another like her, in that case," suggested
Christy. "The name is painted on the stern board, and we might remove
it, if necessary."

Mr. Gilfleur said so much about it that Christy finally turned in, and
was soon fast asleep. He did not wake till daylight in the morning. He
found that the boat was headed towards an island, while in the distance
he saw the light on Hog Island, with a portion of the town of Nassau,
and a fort. The skipper had his chart spread out on the seat at his
side, and he was watching it very closely.

"Good-morning, Mr. Gilfleur. I suppose that must be Nassau ahead of us."

"Yes; that is Nassau. I expected to get here earlier in the morning than
this, and I am not a little afraid to sail into the harbor at seven
o'clock in the morning, as it will be before we can get there. The wind
died out in the middle of the night, though I got it again very early
this morning. I must get to the town in some other way. The land on the
port is Rose Island, and Douglas Channel is just this side of it. I am
going through that, and shall make my way to the back side of the
island, where we can conceal the boat."

"I should say that would be a good idea," added Christy, as he took in
the plan. "The water is as clear as crystal here, and you can see the
bottom as plainly as though nothing came between your eye and the rock."

The skipper stationed his companion on the bow of the boat to watch for
rocks; but none interfered with the progress of the Eleuthera. She
sailed to the back side of the island of New Providence, where they
found a secluded nook, in which they moored the craft.




CHAPTER XVII

THE LANDING AT NEW PROVIDENCE


The water was so clear that the bottom could be seen at all times, the
white coral rock greatly assisting the transparency. From Douglas
Channel, through which the boat had passed, the chart indicated that it
was twenty miles to the point where the skipper desired to land, and it
was nearly eleven o'clock when the Eleuthera ran into the little bay,
extending over a mile into the island, and nearly landlocked. The shore
was covered with tropical vegetation, including cocoa-nut palms, loaded
with fruit, with palmettoes, wild palms, and many plants of which
Christy did not even know the names.

"We could not have anything better than this," said Mr. Gilfleur, as he
ran the boat into a tangle of mangroves and other plants.

"This bay appears to be about five miles from the town of Nassau, and I
should say that no person is likely to see the boat if it should stay
here for a month," replied Christy, as he measured the distance across
the island with the scale his companion had prepared.

"It will not take us long to walk that distance. There are all sorts of
people in Nassau at the present time, as there were in St. George's and
Hamilton; and we shall pass without exciting any particular attention."

"I think we had better look out for a cleaner place to land than this,
for the mud seems to be about knee-deep," suggested Christy, as he
tested the consistency of the shore with an oar.

"But there is hard ground within four feet of the water. I have a board
in the bottom of the boat with which we can bridge the mud," replied the
skipper. "But I think we had better have our lunch before we walk five
miles."

"I am in condition to lunch," added Christy.

The sails had been furled, and everything put in order on board of the
boat. The basket containing the provisions was brought out of the cuddy,
and seated in the stern sheets they did ample justice to the meal. The
detective had put on his suit of blue, and his companion dressed himself
as he had done in Bermuda, though he was not to act the part of a
servant on this occasion.

"It will not do to acknowledge that we are Americans, and it would not
be prudent to claim that we are Englishmen," said Mr. Gilfleur.

"Why not? We speak English; and you can pronounce it as well as I can,"
argued Christy.

"Because we may be catechised; though I know London almost as well as I
do Paris, I am afraid you might be caught."

"I have been in London twice, though I don't know enough about it to
answer all the questions that may be put to me," added Christy.

"In that case we had better be Frenchmen, as we were before. We are not
likely to find many people here who speak French, for the visiting
portion of the population must be people who are engaged in
blockade-running. Probably there are some Southern magnates here,
attending to the business of the Confederacy."

"They were here two years ago, when I was in Nassau for a few hours,
on the lookout for steamers for their navy. I remember Colonel Richard
Pierson, who was extremely anxious to purchase the Bellevite, which
anchored outside the light, for there was not water enough to allow her
to cross the bar," said Christy, recalling some of the events of his
first voyage in the steamer his father had presented to the government.

"Perhaps he is still in Nassau," suggested Mr. Gilfleur, with a shade of
anxiety on his face.

"He would not recognize me now, for I have grown a good deal, and I
hardly saw him. He employed his son, a young fellow of eighteen, to act
for him in obtaining information in regard to the Bellevite. The son's
name was Percy Pierson, and when he tried to pump me in regard to the
Bellevite, I chaffed him till he lost all patience. Then he proposed to
put the owner of our steamer, for she had not then been transferred to
the government, in the way of making a fortune. I told him that the
owner was determined to get rid of the ship, though I only meant to say
that he intended to pass her over to the government. At any rate, Percy
believed she was for sale, and he smuggled himself on board of her. He
was not discovered till we were under way; and we had to take him with
us."

"What became of this Percy Pierson?" asked the detective.

"We brought him off with us when we fought our way out of Mobile Bay.
Off Carisfort Reef light we put him on board of a schooner belonging to
Nassau; and that was the last I know about him."

"But I hope he is not in Nassau now," said Mr. Gilfleur.

"I don't believe he is, for his brother was doing his best to get him
into the Confederate army."

"You must keep your eyes wide open for this fellow, Mr. Passford," added
the skipper earnestly. "If he should recognize you, our enterprise would
be ruined."

"I don't believe there is the least danger of that, for I am a
different-looking fellow from what I was two years ago. But I will look
out sharply for him, and for his father."

"We had better speak nothing but French between ourselves, and break up
our English when we are obliged to use it," Mr. Gilfleur concluded, as
he returned the basket of provisions to the cuddy, and locked the door.

The board was put down on the mud, and they walked ashore, dry-shod. The
temporary bridge was taken up, and concealed in a mass of mangroves. The
Eleuthera was so well covered up with trees and bushes that she was not
likely to be discovered, unless some wanderer penetrated the thicket
that surrounded her. A gentle elevation was directly before them, so
that they could not see the town.

"We must not walk ten miles in making five," said the detective, as he
produced a pocket compass. "Our course, as I took it from the chart, is
due north, though it may bring us in at the western end of the town."

"Then we can bear a little to the east, though if we get to the town it
will not make much difference where we strike it," added Christy.

The land showed the remains of plantations which had flourished there in
the palmy days of the island. The ruins of several mansions and many
small huts were seen. Cocoa-nut palms and orange-trees were abundant.
After they had walked about a mile, they came upon what had been a road
in former days, and was evidently used to some extent still. Taking this
road, they followed it till they were satisfied that it would take them
to Nassau.

The appearance of the island soon began to improve. The trees showed
that some care had been bestowed upon them, and an occasional mansion
was noticed. Then the street began to be flanked with small houses,
hardly better than huts, which were inhabited by the blacks. All the
people they met were negroes, and they were as polite as though they had
been brought up in Paris, for every one of the men either touched his
hat or took it off to the strangers. The women bowed also; and both of
the travellers returned the salutes in every instance.

As they proceeded, the houses became better, and many of them were used
in part as shops, in which a variety of articles, including beer, was
sold. Christy had seen the negroes of the Southern States, and he
thought the Nassau colored people presented a much better appearance.
At one of these little shops a carriage of the victoria pattern was
standing. Doubtless the driver had gone in to refresh himself after a
long course, for the vehicle was headed towards the town.

"I think we had better ride the rest of the way, if this carriage is not
engaged," said M. Rubempr, for they had agreed to use the names they
had adopted in the Bermudas. "What do you say, Christophe?"

"I like the idea; I am beginning to be a little tired, for I have not
walked much lately," replied Christy.

At this moment the driver, a negro wearing a straw hat with a very broad
brim, came out of the shop, wiping his mouth with the sleeve of his
coat. He bowed with even more deference than the generality of the
people. The strangers were not elegantly or genteelly dressed, but they
wore good clothes, and would have passed for masters of vessels, so far
as their costumes were concerned.

"Is this your carriage?" demanded M. Rubempr.

"Yes, sir," replied the man in good English.

"How far you must go to get into Nassau?" inquired the detective,
mangling his English enough to suit the occasion.

"Two miles, sir."

"How much you make pay to go to Nassau in ze carriage?"

"Fifty cents."

"Feefty cents; how much money was zat?"

"Arn't you Americans?"

"_Non!_" replied M. Rubempr with energy. "We have come from ze France;
but I was been in London, and I comprehend ze money of Eengland."

"Two shillings then," replied the driver, laughing.

"We go wiz you to ze Nassau," added the Frenchman, seating himself in
the carriage, his companion taking a place at his side.

"Where do you want to go, sir?" asked the negro, as he closed the door
of the victoria.

"We must go to Nassau," replied the detective, mangling his
pronunciation even more than his grammar.

"Yes, I know; but where in Nassau do you wish to go? Shall I drive you
to a hotel? The Royal Victoria is the best in the place."

"You shall take us to zat hotel."

For the sake of appearances, rather than for any other reason, each of
the visitors to Nassau had brought with him a small hand-bag, containing
such articles as might be useful to them. Having these evidences that
they were travellers, it would be prudent to go to a hotel, though the
want of more luggage had made the landlord in Hamilton suspicious of
their ability to pay their bills.

Christy found enough to do during the ride to observe the strange sights
presented to his gaze, even in the outskirts of the town. The people
were full of interest to him, and he wondered that his father had never
made a winter trip in the West Indies in former years, instead of
confining his visits to the more northern islands of the ocean.

The carriage arrived at the Royal Victoria Hotel, located on a ridge
which has been dignified as a hill, a short distance in the rear of the
business portion of the town. M. Rubempr produced his purse, which was
well stuffed with sovereigns, more for the enlightenment of the clerk
who came out when the vehicle stopped, than for the information of the
driver, to whom he paid four florins, which was just double his fare.

"Do you speak French?" asked the guest in that language.

"No, sir; not a word of it," though he understood the question.

"We must have two chambers for one, two, t'ree day."

"All right; we have two that were vacated this morning," replied the
clerk, as he led the way to the office, where the Frenchman registered
his name, and his residence as in Paris.

Christy wrote the name of Christophe Poireau, also from Paris. Then they
chatted together in French for a moment, in order to impress the clerk
and others who were standing near with the fact that they spoke the
polite language. They were shown to two small chambers, well up in the
air, for the hotel seemed to be as full as the clerk had suggested that
it was. The blockade business made the town and the hotel very lively.

The newly arrived guests did not waste any time in their rooms, but
entered at once upon the work of their mission. On the piazza they
halted to size up the other visitors at the hotel. From this high point
of view they could see the harbor, crowded with vessels.




CHAPTER XVIII

AN AFFRAY IN NASSAU


Christy's first care was to look about among the guests of the hotel
gathered on the piazza, in order to ascertain if there was any person
there whom he had ever met before. Very few of them were what could be
classed as genteel people, and some of them were such people as one
would not expect to see at a first-class hotel. They were dressed in
seaman's garments for the most part, though not as common sailors; and
doubtless many of them were commanders or officers of the vessels in the
harbor.

Putting on an indifferent air he walked about the veranda, observing
every person he encountered, as well as those who were seated in groups,
engaged in rather noisy conversation, intermixed with a great deal of
profanity. He breathed easier when he had made the circuit of the
piazzas on the first floor, though there were two others on the stories
above it, for he found no one he could identify as a person he had seen
before.

There were quite a number of steamers in the harbor, or in that part of
it which lies inside of the bar and in front of the town, with at least
three times as many sailing craft. No doubt many of the latter, as well
as the former, had brought cargoes of cotton from Confederate ports; for
though the blockade was regarded as effective, and treated as such by
foreign nations, many small vessels contrived to escape from obscure
harbors on the Southern coast. Christy had been concerned in the capture
of a considerable number of such. On the wharves were stacks of cotton
which had been landed from these vessels, and several of them were
engaged in transferring it to small steamers, for large ones were unable
to cross the bar. But the visitors had no business with the vessels thus
engaged, for they had completed their voyages, and were exempt from
capture.

"I have taken not a few prisoners in or off Southern ports, and it would
not greatly surprise me if I should meet some one I had met before,"
said Christy, in French, as he resumed his seat by the side of the
detective.

"Then I fear that your coming with me was a mistake," replied M.
Rubempr. "You must be extremely cautious, not only for your own
protection, but because you may compromise me, and cause me to fail in
the accomplishment of my mission here."

"I should be sorry to interfere with your work, and I think we had
better separate," replied Christy, very much disturbed at the suggestion
of his friend. "If I can do no good, I certainly do not wish to do any
harm."

"No, my friend; I cannot desert you, especially if you are in peril,"
protested the detective. "How could I ever look your father in the face
if I permitted you to get into trouble here?"

"I don't think I shall get into trouble, even if I am recognized by some
person. This is not Confederate territory, though it looks very much
like it; for all the people around us are talking secession, and the
inhabitants sympathize with the South to the fullest extent. I could not
be captured and sent to a Confederate State, or be subjected to any
violence, for the authorities would not permit anything of the kind,"
Christy argued with energy.

"I am not so sure of that."

"I have no doubt in regard to my own safety; but if you appear to be
connected with me in any manner, and I were identified as a United
States naval officer, of course it would ruin your enterprise. For this
reason I insist that we separate, and I will take a room at another
hotel."

Christy was determined, and in the end the detective had to yield in
substance to him, though it was agreed, for reasons that seemed to be
good, that M. Rubempr should change his hotel. They arranged to meet
after dark in the grounds in the rear of the Royal Victoria, to consult
in regard to the future.

"In the mean time I will do what I can to obtain information in regard
to steamers bound to Confederate ports. I will still claim to be a
Frenchman, and talk pigeon English," continued Christy.

"If any misfortune happens to you, Christophe, I shall blame myself for
it," added the Frenchman.

"You cannot fairly do that, for it will not be through any fault of
yours. If I fail to meet you as agreed, you can look for me. If you
cannot find me, you must leave at the time agreed upon with Captain
Chantor, whether I go with you or not. But I have no idea that anything
will happen to prevent me from returning to the ship with you."

"I could not leave without you," said the detective moodily.

"If you do not, you will be likely to get the Chateaugay into trouble;
for if we did not return to her, she would probably come into this port
after us."

"I will consider the matter before I assent to it," returned M.
Rubempr, rising from his chair.

Christy was fully resolved not to endanger the mission of his companion,
and he left the hotel. He walked slowly down Parliament to Bay Street,
which is the principal business avenue of the town, running parallel to
the shore. It was lined with shops, saloons, and small hotels on one
side, and with the market and wharves on the other. He desired to see
what he could of the place, and pick up all the information that would
be serviceable to an officer of the navy.

  [Illustration:
  "His blood was boiling with indignation at the unprovoked assault."
  Page 207.]

As he passed a drinking-saloon a torrent of loud talk, spiced with
oaths, flowed out from the place. Before he had fairly passed the door a
violent hand was laid upon him, seizing him by the collar with no gentle
grasp. The ruffian had fallen upon him from the rear, and he could not
see who it was that assaulted him. The man attempted to drag him into
the saloon; but he was evidently considerably affected by his potations
in the place, and his legs were somewhat tangled up by the condition of
his brain.

Christy attempted, by a vigorous movement, to shake off his assailant;
but the fellow held on, and he found it impossible to detach his grasp.
His blood was boiling with indignation at the unprovoked assault, and
his two fists were clinched so tight that iron could hardly have been
harder and tougher. He levelled a blow at the head of the ruffian, who
still kept in his rear, and delivered it with all the power of his
strong arm.

The assailant reeled, and released his hold, for his head must have
whirled around like a top under the crashing blow it had sustained.
Christy turned so that he could see the ruffian. He was a stalwart
fellow, at least fifty pounds heavier than the young lieutenant. His
nose was terribly disfigured, not by the blow of the young officer, for,
twisted as it was, there was no sign of a fresh wound upon it. One
glance was enough to satisfy Christy as to the identity of the ruffian.

It was Captain Flanger, whose steamer Christy had captured, with a boat
expedition sent out from the Bronx, in St. Andrew's Bay. He was a
prisoner, but had escaped, and invaded the cabin of the Bronx, where he
attempted to make Christy sign an order which would have resulted in
delivering the steamer to the enemy. The heroic young commander,
preferring death to dishonor, had refused to sign the order. The affair
had culminated in a sort of duel in the cabin, in which Christy, aided
by his faithful steward, had hit Flanger in the nose with his revolver.

The ruffian had sworn to be revenged at the time, and he seemed to have
chosen the present occasion to wreak his vengeance upon the destroyer of
his nasal member. The blow his victim had struck was a set-back to him;
but he presently recovered the balance of his head which the shock had
upset. It was plain enough that he had not given up the battle, for he
had drawn back with the evident intention of using his clinched fists
upon his adversary.

"Hit him again, Flanger!" shouted one of the brutal occupants of the
saloon, who now filled the doorway.

The affair was rapidly becoming serious, and Christy was debating with
himself whether or not he should draw a revolver he carried in his
pocket; but he was cool enough to realize that he was on neutral ground,
and that it would be very imprudent to be the first to resort to deadly
weapons. He could not run away, for his self-respect would not permit
him to do so. He braced himself up to meet the onslaught of the ruffian.

Flanger charged upon him, and attempted to plant a blow with his fist in
the face of his intended victim; but the young officer parried it, and
was about to follow up the movement with a blow, when Monsieur Rubempr
rushed in between them, struck the assailant such a blow that he went
over backwards. In fact, the man was too much intoxicated to stand
without considerable difficulty.

At this moment a couple of colored policemen rushed in between the
combatants. The tipplers in the saloon picked up their comrade, and
stood him on his feet. The Nassau officers doubtless had a great deal of
this sort of quarrelling, for drinking strong liquors was the principal
occupation of the officers and crews of the blockade-runners while in
port and on shore.

"What is all this about? Who began this quarrel?" demanded one of them,
as he looked from one party to the other in the battle.

"I was passing the door of this saloon, and did not even look into it,
when that man rushed upon me, and seized me by the collar," replied
Christy. "I tried to shake him off, but I could not, and then I struck
him in the side of the head."

"Look here, you nigger!" shouted Captain Flanger. "It's none of your
business who began it."

"I shall arrest you for a breach of the peace," said the policeman.

"I don't reckon you will. Do you see my nose? Look at it! Don't you see
that it is knocked into a cocked hat?" said Flanger fiercely.

"I see it is; but what has that to do with this matter?" asked the negro
officer.

"That man shot my nose off!" roared Flanger. "I am going to kill him for
it, if it costs me my head!"

"You shall not kill him here," protested the guardian of the peace. "You
have been drinking too much, sir, and you must go with me and get
sobered off."

The two policemen walked up to him with the intention of arresting him;
but he showed fight. He was too tipsy to make an effectual resistance.
His companions in the saloon huddled around him, and endeavored to
compel the policemen to let go their hold of him; but they held on to
their prisoner till two more officers came, and Flanger was dragged out
into the street, and then marched to the jail.

Christy was very much surprised that nothing was said to him by the
officers about the affair in which he had been one of the principal
actors. He had expected to be summoned as a witness against the prisoner
they had taken, but not a word was said to him. He looked about to see
if the detective was in sight, but he had disappeared.

"That was an ugly-looking man," said a gentleman in the street, after
the carousers had returned to the saloon. "I hope he has not injured
you."

"Not at all, sir; he was too drunk to do all he could have done if he
had been in full possession of his faculties, for he is a much heavier
person than I am," replied Christy. "Why was I not summoned as a witness
at his examination?"

"Oh, bless you, sir! they will not examine or try him; they will sober
him off, and then discharge him. He is the captain of that little
steamer near the public wharf. She is called the Snapper, and will sail
for the States on the high tide at five o'clock."

"Do you know to what port she is bound?" asked Christy.

"Mobile."

The young officer walked down to the public wharf to see the Snapper.




CHAPTER XIX

AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE


The Snapper was quite a small craft, and looked like an old vessel; for
she was a side-wheeler, though she had evidently been built for a
sea-going craft. Whether Flanger had escaped from the Bellevite after
being transferred to her from the Bronx, or had been regularly exchanged
as a prisoner of war, Christy had no means of knowing. It made little
difference; he was in Nassau, and he was thirsting for revenge against
him.

The young officer did not feel that the brutal wretch had any reasonable
cause to complain of him, and especially no right to revenge himself for
an injury received while his assailant was the aggressor. He had done
his duty to his country. He had been compelled to act promptly; and he
had not aimed his revolver particularly at the nose of his dangerous
assailant. Flanger was engaged in a foolhardy enterprise; and the
mutilation of his nasal member had resulted very naturally from his
folly.

His enemy was probably a good sailor, and he was a bold ruffian. Christy
had captured the steamer loaded with cotton, in which he was all ready
to sail from St. Andrew's Bay; and doubtless this was his first reason
for hating the young officer. But no soldier or sailor of character
would ever think of such a thing as revenging himself for an injury
received in the strife, especially if it was fairly inflicted. The
business of war is to kill, wound, and capture, as well as for each side
to injure the other in person and property to the extent of its ability.

"Want a boat, sir?" asked a negro, who saw that Christy was gazing at
the Snapper, even while he was thinking about his quarrel with Captain
Flanger.

"Where is your boat?" asked the officer.

"Right here, sir," replied the boatman, pointing to the steps at the
landing-place. "The best sailboat in the harbor, sir."

"I want to sail about this bay for a couple of hours," added Christy,
as he stopped on the upper step to examine the craft.

It was built exactly like the Eleuthera, though not quite so large.

"I saw you looking at the steamer there," said the boatman, pointing to
the vessel in which Christy was interested. "Do you wish to go on board
of her, sir?"

"No; I desire only to sail about the harbor, and perhaps go outside the
bar. Can you cross it in this boat?"

"Yes, sir; no trouble at all about crossing it in the Dinah. Take you
over to Eleuthera, if you like."

"No; I only want to sail about the harbor, and look at the vessels in
port," replied Christy.

While he was looking at the boat, he became conscious that a young man,
who was standing on the capsill of the wharf, was looking at him very
earnestly. He only glanced at him, but did not recognize him. He had
taken the first step in the descent of the stairs, when this person put
his hand upon his shoulder to attract his attention. Christy looked at
him, and was sure that he had seen him before, though he failed to
identify him.

"How are you, Christy?" said the stranger. "Don't you know me?"

"Your face has a familiar look to me, but I am unable to make you out at
first sight," replied the young officer, more puzzled as he examined the
features of the young man, who appeared to be about twenty years old.

"You and I both have grown a great deal in the last two years, since we
first met on this very wharf; but I am Percy Pierson, and you and I were
fellow-voyagers in the Bellevite."

"I think you have changed in that time more than I have, or I should
have recognized you," answered Christy very coldly, for he was not at
all pleased to be identified by any person.

"You are a good deal larger than when I saw you last time, but you look
just the same. I am glad to see you, Christy, for you and I ran a big
rig over in Mobile Bay," continued Percy, as he extended his hand to the
other.

Christy realized that it would be useless as well as foolish to deny his
identity to one who knew him so well. A moment's reflection assured him
that he must make the best of the circumstances; but he wished with all
his might that he had not come to Nassau. He was particularly glad that
he had insisted upon separating from Mr. Gilfleur, for the present
encounter would have ruined his mission. The young man's father was
Colonel Richard Pierson, a neighbor of Homer Passford; and he was a
Confederate commissioner for the purchase of vessels for the rebel navy,
for running the blockade. Doubtless the son was his father's assistant,
as he had been at the time of Christy's first visit.

Percy was not a person of very heavy brain calibre, as his companion had
learned from an association of several weeks with him. Christy believed
that he might obtain some useful information from him; and he decided,
since it was impossible to escape the interview, to make the best of it,
and he accepted the offered hand. He did not consider the young
Southerner as much of a rebel, for he had refused to shoulder a musket
and fight for the cause.

"I begin to see your former looks, and particularly your expression,"
said Christy. "I am very glad to see you, and I hope you have been very
well since we met last."

"Very well indeed."

"Do you live here, Percy?"

"I have lived here most of the time since we parted on board of the
Bellevite, and you put me on board of a schooner bound to Nassau. That
was a very good turn you did me, for I believed you would take me to New
York, and pitch me into a Yankee prison. I was very grateful to you, for
I know it was your influence that saved me."

This remark seemed to put a new face upon the meeting. Christy had done
nothing to cause him to be set free; for the Bellevite, though she had
beaten off several steamers that attempted to capture her, was not in
the regular service at the time, her mission in the South being simply
to bring home the daughter of her owner, who had passed the winter with
her uncle at Glenfield.

"I am very glad I was able to do you a good turn," replied Christy, who
considered it his duty to take advantage of the circumstances. "I am
just going out to take a sail; won't you join me?"

"Thank you; I shall be very glad to do so. I suppose you are a Yankee
still, engaged in the business of subjugating the free South, as I am
still a rebel to the backbone," replied Percy, laughing very pleasantly.

"But you are not in the rebel army now, any more than you were at that
time," added Christy in equally good humor.

"I am not. You know all about my army experience. My brother, the major,
sends me a letter by every chance he can get, and has offered to have my
indiscretion, as he called it, in leaving the camp, passed over, if I
will save the honor of the family by returning to the army; but my
father insists that I can render better service to the cause as his
assistant."

Christy led the way down the steps, and the two seated themselves in the
bow of the boat. The skipper shoved off after he had set his sails, and
the boat stood out towards the Snapper, for he could hardly avoid
passing quite near to her.

"What are you doing in Nassau, Christy?" asked Percy.

This was a hard question, and it was utterly impossible to make a
truthful reply without upsetting the plan of Mr. Gilfleur, and rendering
useless the voyage of the Chateaugay to the Bahamas.

"I am in just as bad a scrape as you were when you were caught on board
of the Bellevite," replied Christy after a moment's reflection.

"Are you a prisoner of war?"

"How could I be a prisoner in a neutral port like Nassau? No; I do not
regard myself as a prisoner just now," answered Christy very
good-humoredly.

"But you have been a prisoner, and you have escaped in some vessel that
run the blockade. I see it all; and you need not stop to explain it,"
said Percy, who flattered himself on his brilliant perception.

"The less I say about it the better it will be for me," added Christy,
willing to accept the situation as his companion had marked it out.

"But you must not let my father see you."

"I never met Colonel Pierson, though I saw him once, and he would not
know me if we should meet."

"Then don't let him know who you are."

"He will not know, unless you tell him."

"You may be very sure that I will not mention you to him, or to anybody
else, for that matter," replied Percy very earnestly.

But Christy did not put any confidence in his assertion. Percy was
really a deserter from the Confederate army, and he knew that he had in
several instances acted the traitor's part. He had more respect for an
out-and-out rebel than for one who shirked his duty to his country as he
understood it.

"I have been afraid some one might identify me here," suggested Christy,
determined not to over-act his part.

"I might help you out of the scrape," said Percy, who appeared to be
reflecting upon something that had come to his mind. "I suppose you are
aware that most of the vessels in this harbor, and those outside the
bar, are directly or indirectly interested in blockade-running."

"I supposed so, but I know nothing about it."

"Some of them have brought in cotton, with which others are loading for
England. My business as my father's clerk takes me on board of most of
them, and I know the captains and other officers very well. This little
steamer we have just passed was bought for a Mobile man by my father.
She carried a full cargo of goods into Mobile, and came out again full
of cotton. She is called the Snapper, and she is a regular snapper at
her business. She is now all loaded, and will sail on the next tide.
I am well acquainted with her captain."

"What sort of a man is he?" asked Christy in an indifferent tone.

"He is a very good fellow; bold as an eagle, and brave as a lion. He
drinks too much whiskey for his own good; but he knows all the ports on
the Gulf of Mexico, and he gets in or out in face of the blockaders
every time," answered Percy with enthusiasm.

"Did he never lose a vessel?"

"Never but one; that was the Floridian, and I reckon you know as much
about that affair as any other person, Christy," replied Percy, laughing
as though it had been a good joke on Captain Flanger.

"I know something about it."

"Your uncle, Colonel Passford, lost several vessels, and you had a hand
in their capture. But never mind that; you did me a good turn, and I
never go back on a friend. Now, my dear fellow, I do not think it will
be safe for you to remain here. You are looked upon as a dangerous
fellow along the Gulf coast, as Colonel Passford writes to my father;
and if my governor should get a hint that you were here, he would make a
business of getting you inside a Confederate prison."

"I am under the flag of England just now, and that is supposed to
protect neutrals."

"That's all very well, my dear fellow; but my governor could manage your
affair in some way. I can make a trade with the captain of the Snapper
to put you ashore at Key West."

"You are very kind, Percy."

"It will be necessary for you to buy a boat here, one with a sail, which
can be carried on the deck of the steamer," continued Percy, evidently
much interested in the scheme he was maturing.

At this moment the Dinah was passing under the stern of a steamer,
on which Christy read the name "Ovidio."




CHAPTER XX

A BAND OF RUFFIANS


The Ovidio was one of the vessels of which Captain Passford had obtained
information in New York, and by which the traitor merchant had at first
intended to send the machinery on board of the Ionian into the
Confederacy.

"That vessel flying the British flag appears to be a man-of-war," said
Christy.

"That is just what she is, confound her!" replied Percy bitterly. "She
is the Greyhound, and she has seized the Ovidio which we just passed;
but my father believes she will be released;" as in fact she was, after
a delay of two months.

"That looks a little like neutrality," added the naval officer.

"But what do you think of my scheme to get you out of this scrape before
you get into any trouble here?" asked Percy, who seemed to his companion
to be altogether too much interested in his plan. "Flanger is a friend
of mine, for I was able to render him a very important service, nothing
less than getting him the command of the Snapper."

"Of course I want to get out of the scrape."

"I suppose you haven't money enough to buy the boat, if you escaped from
a Confederate prison; but I will help you out on that by lending you
forty or fifty dollars."

"Thank you, Percy, you are behaving like a true friend, and I shall
remember you with gratitude," replied Christy, as earnestly as the
occasion seemed to require. "Do you think you can trust Captain Flanger
to put me in the way to get to Key West?"

"I am sure I can!" exclaimed the schemer warmly. "He would do anything
for me."

"But perhaps he would not do anything for me."

"I hope you don't mistrust my sincerity in this matter, my dear fellow,"
continued Percy, with an aggrieved expression on his face.

"Oh, no! Certainly not. I only suggested that your friend the captain
might not be as willing as you are to let me escape at Key West."

"I will guarantee his fidelity. I am as sure of him as I am of myself."

"All right, Percy, I will hold myself subject to your orders. But I
think you had better buy the boat, and put it on board of the Snapper,
for I could not do so without exposing myself," suggested Christy.
"I have some money that I concealed about me, and I will pay the bills
before I go on board of the steamer."

"I will do everything that is necessary to be done with the greatest
pleasure. Perhaps you had better go on board of the Snapper on our
return to the town. Then you will not be seen by any person," suggested
Percy with as much indifference as he could assume.

"What time will the steamer sail?"

"About five o'clock, which is high tide."

"It is only half-past one now; besides, I have to go up to the hotel for
my satchel, and to pay my bill. Where do you live, Percy?"

"We have a house on Frederick Street. At what hotel are you stopping?"

"At the Royal Victoria."

"What is the number of your room?" asked Percy.

"No. 44."

Christy was sharp enough to comprehend the object of these questions;
and, as a matter of precaution, he divided the number of his room by two
in making his reply.

"That makes an easy thing of it," continued Percy. "I will go to the
Royal Victoria at four o'clock, pay your bill and get your satchel.
I will meet you on the public wharf at half-past, and see that you have
a good stateroom in the cabin of the Snapper."

"That seems to be all very well arranged," added Christy.

"But I must see Captain Flanger before four o'clock. How much longer do
you intend to cruise in this boat?" asked the schemer, beginning to
manifest a little impatience.

The conversation had been carried on in a low tone at the bow of the
boat, where the boatman could not hear what was said.

"I think I am safer out here than I should be on shore," suggested
Christy. "I might meet some other person in the town who knows me."

"All right; but I ought to see Captain Flanger as soon as possible, for
I shall ask him to buy the boat," replied Percy uneasily. "You might
land me, and then sail another hour or two yourself."

"Very well; that will suit me exactly. Skipper, this gentleman wishes to
be put on shore; but I desire to sail another hour or two," said
Christy, addressing the boatman.

"All right, sir; I will go to the wharf if you say so, but I can put the
other gentleman into that boat which has just come over the bar. The
boatman is a friend of mine."

"Who is he, David?" asked Percy.

"Jim Peckson."

"I know him, and I will go up in his boat if you will hail him,"
answered the young Southerner. "I suppose the arrangement is well
understood," he added, dropping his voice so that the boatman could not
hear him. "You are to be on the public wharf at half-past four, when I
come down with your satchel."

"Perfectly understood," added the other.

David hailed his friend Jim Peckson, and Percy was transferred to his
boat. Christy felt an intense relief in getting rid of him. Of course he
had not the remotest idea of going on board of the Snapper, whose brutal
commander had declared that he would kill him. But he realized that
Nassau was not a safe place for him.

The boat crossed the bar, and the passenger took his seat by the side of
the boatman. David directed his boat towards the larger steamers
outside, which were loading with cotton from several small craft. They
were, doubtless, to convey it to England. Christy felt no interest in
these, for the voyages of the blockade-runners ended when they reached
the port of Nassau.

"Shall I sail you over to the sea-gardens now, sir?" asked David, when
his passenger intimated that he had seen enough of the vessels outside
the bar.

"Yes; anywhere you please, David. I don't care about going on shore
before dark," replied Christy.

The passenger was greatly interested in the sea-gardens, and for more
than an hour he gazed through the clear water at the sea-plants on the
bottom, and at the many-colored fishes that were swimming about in the
midst of them. He was desirous of using up the time until he could have
the covert of the friendly darkness. He looked at his watch, and found
it was nearly five o'clock.

"What time is it high tide, David?" he asked.

"Five o'clock, sir."

"Are there any steamers to sail to-day? I suppose they can go over the
bar only at full sea."

"Only small vessels can go over at any other time. The Snapper was to
sail at high tide."

"Then I think we will run down by the light, and see her come out of the
harbor," added Christy.

"I don't believe she will come out this afternoon, sir," said David.

"Why not?"

"Her captain got arrested for something. I saw four officers taking him
to the jail. Some one told me he was drunk, and had pitched into a
gentleman who was walking along the sidewalk in front of a saloon on Bay
Street."

"They will discharge him in time to sail on the tide, won't they?"

"I don't reckon they will. The men from the vessels in the harbor at
this time make heaps of trouble," replied David. "If the gentleman he
hit had a mind to complain of him, the court would lock him up for a
week or two."

Christy was not disposed, under the circumstances, to make a complaint.
The boat was soon in sight of the lighthouse and the bar. The Dinah made
a long stretch to the eastward, and was in sight of the entrance to the
harbor till it began to be dark; but no steamer came out on the high
tide. The boat crossed the bar again.

"Now, David, I want you to land me some distance beyond the public
wharf," said Christy. "How much shall I pay you for this sail?"

"About three dollars, sir, if you don't think that is too much,"
answered the boatman.

"That is very reasonable for the time you have been out; and there is a
sovereign," added the passenger, as he handed him the gold coin.

"I don't think I can change this piece, sir."

"You need not change it; keep the whole of it."

"Oh, thank you, sir! You are very generous, and I thank you with all my
heart. I don't often earn that much money in a whole day."

"All right, David; I am satisfied if you are."

"I am more than satisfied, sir. But where shall I land you?"

"I don't know the names of all the streets, but go to the eastward of
the public wharf."

"I can land you at the foot of Union Street."

"How will I get to the Royal Victoria Hotel?"

The boatman directed him so that he could find his destination. He was
somewhat afraid that Percy Pierson might be on the lookout for the
Dinah; but by this time it was so dark that he could hardly make her
out. David landed him at the place indicated, and he followed the
directions given him, which brought him to the east end of the hotel.
It was too early to meet Mr. Gilfleur, and he found the guests were at
dinner. He had eaten nothing since the lunch on board of the Eleuthera;
and, after he had looked in the faces of all the men at the table, he
took his place with them, and did full justice to the fare set before
him.

He did not venture to remain in the hotel. He desired to see the
detective, for he had decided not to remain another day in Nassau. As
long as Percy Pierson was in the town, it was not a safe place for him.
He had decided to make his way across the island to the nook where the
Eleuthera was concealed, and remain on board of her until the detective
returned. But he desired to see him, and report his intention to him,
so that he need not be concerned about him.

  [Illustration:
  "Two men sprang upon him." Page 233.]

Christy was entirely satisfied that he had correctly interpreted the
purpose of Percy to betray him into the hands of Captain Flanger. As he
was not on the public wharf at half-past four, doubtless he had been on
the lookout for him. He knew David, and his first step would be to find
him. The boatman would be likely to tell him that his fellow-passenger
in the Dinah had gone to the hotel. He visited the place arranged for
his meeting with Mr. Gilfleur; but it was in advance of the time, and he
was not there. He walked about the hotel grounds, careful to avoid every
person who came in his way.

In the darkness he saw a man approaching him, and he turned about,
walking away in the opposite direction. But presently this person moved
off towards the hotel, and he started again for the rendezvous with the
detective. He had gone but a short distance before two men sprang upon
him, one of them taking him in the rear, and hugging him so that he
could not move his arms. He began a mighty struggle; but two more men
came out of their hiding-place, and a pair of handcuffs were slipped
upon his wrists.

Then he attempted to call for assistance, but a handkerchief was
promptly stuffed into his mouth, and the ruffians hurried him out
through a narrow gateway to an unfrequented street, where a carriage
appeared to be in waiting for them.

"Drive to the beach back of Fort Montague," said one of them.

It was the voice of Captain Flanger.




CHAPTER XXI

A QUESTION OF NEUTRALITY


Even before he heard the voice of his savage enemy, Christy Passford
realized that he had fallen into the hands of the commander of the
Snapper. He was placed on the back seat of the carriage, with a pair of
handcuffs on his wrists, and a handkerchief in his mouth to do duty as a
gag. Captain Flanger was at his side, with two other men on the front
seat, and one on the box with the driver. Against these four men he was
powerless to make any resistance while he was in irons.

The carriage was drawn by two horses, and was considerably larger than
the ordinary victoria used in the town. It was quite dark, and though
the streets were flanked with many houses, hardly a person appeared to
be stirring at this hour. But a vehicle loaded down with the rough
visitors of the place could not be an unusual sight, for they were the
kind of people who were disposed to make the night hideous, as well as
the day.

Christy had struggled with all his might to shake off the ruffians who
beset him, and two more had come out from their concealment when he
thought he was making some progress in freeing himself from their grasp.
As soon as his wrists were ironed he realized that resistance was
useless, and that it could only increase his discomfort. It was a
terrible calamity to have fallen into the power of a man so brutal and
unscrupulous as Captain Flanger, bent upon revenging himself for the
mutilation of his most prominent facial member. He was certainly
disfigured for life, though the wound made by the ball from the revolver
had healed; but it was an ill-looking member, and he appeared to be
conscious of his facial deformity all the time.

The men in the carriage said nothing, and Christy way unable to speak.
They seemed to be afraid of attracting the attention of the few
passers-by in the streets, and of betraying the nature of the outrage in
which they were engaged. The streets in the more frequented parts of the
town were crowded with men, as the victim had been able to see, and he
hoped that they would come across some large collection of people. In
that case he decided to make a demonstration that would attract the
attention of the police, if nothing more.

He had no idea of the location of Fort Montague, to which the man on the
box had been ordered to drive them. The direction was to a beach near
the fort; and he had no doubt there would be a boat there in readiness
to convey him to the Snapper. But the farther the carriage proceeded,
the less frequented the streets became. He found no opportunity to make
his intended demonstration. His only hope now was that Mr. Gilfleur, who
must have been in the vicinity of the hotel, had witnessed the outrage,
and would interfere, as he had done on Bay Street, and save him from the
fate that was in store for him.

In a rather lonely place Christy discovered the outline in the darkness
of what looked like a fort. At the same moment he heard the distant
stroke of some public clock, striking nine o'clock. This was the time
appointed for the meeting with the detective, and he had been at the
place a quarter of an hour before, which fully explained why the
detective had not been there; and probably he had been in his room. This
conclusion seemed to cut off all hope that he had witnessed the attack
upon him.

The carriage stopped at the beach below the fort. It was the
bathing-place for the town, and at this hour it was entirely deserted.
The person on the box with the driver was the first to alight, and he
ran down to the water. He returned in a few minutes to the carriage, the
other ruffians retaining their places.

"The boat is not here yet, but it is coming," said this man, reporting
to the captain.

"All right; I told the mate to be here at nine o'clock, and it has just
struck that hour," replied Flanger. "Go down to the water, driver."

The vehicle moved down to the water's edge and stopped again. At the
same time the boat grated on the sand, and came to a halt a few feet
from the dry ground.

"We are all right now," said the person who had been with the driver on
the box; and this time Christy recognized his voice as that of Percy
Pierson.

He had not mistaken or misjudged him. He had not been able to understand
why the young man should befriend him, and it was clear enough now,
if it had not been before, that his gratitude towards him was a mere
pretence. Captain Passford, senior desired to get rid of him, and had
put him on board of the schooner for this reason only.

"Captain Passford, we meet again, as I was sure we should when we parted
in Nassau to-day," said the commander of the Snapper. "Now, if you will
take the trouble to get out of the carriage, we shall be able to make
you comfortable before we have done with you."

Christy attempted to speak; but the gag prevented him from articulating,
and he could not breathe as freely as usual. The captain drew the
handkerchief from his mouth, for there was no one within a long distance
of the spot to aid the prisoner if he had called for help. The victim
had fully determined to resign himself to his fate, and make the best of
the situation until an opportunity offered to effect his escape, though
he greatly feared that such an opportunity would not be presented.

"Thank you, Captain Flanger; I am much obliged to you for giving me a
better chance to breathe, though I suppose you are not very anxious that
I should continue to breathe," replied Christy, assuming a degree of
good nature which had no substantial foundation in reality. "On the
contrary, I dare say you intend to stop my breathing altogether as soon
as you find it convenient to do so."

"Not so; you can do all the breathing you want to, and I won't interfere
as long as you behave yourself," replied Captain Flanger in a more
civilized tone than his victim had heard him use before.

"But to-day noon you swore that you would kill me," added the prisoner,
much surprised at the change in the manner of the ruffian since they had
met on the sidewalk.

"I have altered my mind," replied the captain, leaving Christy in the
hands of his companions, and walking down to the boat, where the two men
in it seemed to be trying to find deeper water, so as to bring it nearer
to the shore.

"Well, how do you find yourself, Christy?" asked Percy, placing himself
in front of him.

"I haven't lost myself so far, and I am as comfortable as could be
expected under the circumstances," answered Christy, whose pride would
not permit him to show that he was overcome or cast down by the
misfortune which had overtaken him.

"You did not come to the public wharf as you promised to do at half-past
four o'clock this afternoon," Percy proceeded.

"I did not; David sailed me off to the sea-gardens, and we did not get
back to the town in season for me to keep the appointment."

"Then you intended to keep it?"

"I did not say so."

"I had the idea you were a fellow that kept all the promises he made,
even if it hurt him to do so."

"Do you think you would have kept your promise to have Captain Flanger
land me at Key West, if I had been weak enough to go on board of his
steamer?" demanded Christy.

"You are fighting on one side, and I am fighting on the other, Christy;
and I suppose either of us is justified in lying and breaking his
promises in the service of his country."

"You are fighting on your side at a very convenient distance from the
battle-ground, Percy."

"I am fighting here because I can render the best service to my country
in this particular place," replied the young Southerner with spirit.
"I am sure I could not do anything better for my country than send you
back to the Confederate prison from which you escaped."

"Even if you violate the neutrality of the place," suggested Christy.
"The British government was ready to declare war against the United
States when a couple of Confederate commissioners were taken out of an
English steamer by a man-of-war. Do you suppose that when this outrage
is known, England will not demand reparation, even to the restoring of
the victim to his original position on this island? I hope you have
considered the consequences of this violation of the neutrality of the
place."

"I don't bother my head about matters of that sort. I have talked about
it with my father, and I think he understands himself," replied Percy
very flippantly.

"I don't think he does. I have the same rights in Nassau that you and
your father possess. You are carrying on the war on neutral ground; and
no nation would permit that."

"I am no lawyer, Christy. I only know that you have done a great deal of
mischief to our cause in the Gulf, as set forth in the letters of your
uncle to my father."

"But I have fought my battles in the enemy's country, or on the open
sea; and I have not done it while skulking under a neutral flag,"
replied the naval officer, with quite as much spirit as his adversary in
the debate. "You and Captain Flanger, with the co-operation of your
father, it appears, are engaged in a flagrant outrage against the
sovereignty of England."

"My father has nothing to do with it; I will take back what I said about
him," added Percy, evidently alarmed at the strength of the argument
against him.

"You told me that you had talked with your father about the case."

"But I withdraw that statement; he knows nothing about it."

"You make two diametrically opposite statements; and I am justified in
accepting the one that suits me best as the truth. If Captain Flanger
does not hang me to the yard-arm as soon as he gets me into blue water,
I shall make my complaint to the United States government as soon as I
have an opportunity to do so; and I have no doubt you and your father
will have permission to leave Nassau, never to return."

Percy was silent, and appeared to be in deep thought. Captain Flanger
had returned to the spot from the boat, and had listened to the last
part of the discussion.

"Captain Flanger understands enough of international law to see that I
am right," continued Christy, when Percy made no reply.

"The people here treat us very handsomely, my little larky," said
Captain Flanger, with a coarse laugh. "I am not to be scared out of my
game by any such bugbears as you talk about. But I am willing to say
this, my little rooster: I have no intention to hang you to the
yard-arm, as you hinted that I might."

"At noon to-day you swore that you would kill me."

"I have altered my mind, as I told you before," growled the commander of
the Snapper, with very ill grace, as though he was ashamed because he
had abandoned his purpose to commit a murder. "I am not what you call a
temperance man; and when I get ashore, and in good company, I sometimes
take a little more good whiskey than it is prudent; but I don't drink
anything on board of my ship. To cut it short, I was a little too much
in the wind when I said I was going to kill you. I am sober now."

"I think you must be able to see what the consequences of murdering a
person captured on British soil would be, Captain Flanger," suggested
Christy.

"As I have told you twice before, I do not intend to murder you," said
the captain angrily. "I am going to put you back in the prison from
which you escaped; that's all. No more talk; take him to the boat."

The two men at Christy's side marched him down to the boat, and seated
him in the stern. The rest of the party took places, and shoved off. In
half an hour the boat was alongside the Snapper.




CHAPTER XXII

ON BOARD OF THE SNAPPER


Christy could not help seeing that a great change had come over the
manner of Captain Flanger, especially in his repeated declarations that
he did not intend to kill his prisoner. His thirst for revenge could
hardly have abated as the effect of his cups passed off, and it was
evident to the victim of the outrage that some other influence had been
brought to bear upon him. It did not seem possible to him that Percy
Pierson could have modified his vindictive nature to this degree.

The young man's father could not fail to see the peril of the step his
son was taking, though he appeared not to have been able to resist the
temptation to get rid of such an active enemy as Christy had proved
himself to be. It looked plain enough to the victim, as he considered
the situation, that Colonel Pierson's influence had produced the change
in the intentions of Captain Flanger. If the prisoner were brutally
treated, and especially if his life were taken, it would make the breach
of neutrality so much the more flagrant.

"Help the young cub on board," said the captain, as he went up the
accommodation ladder, followed by Percy.

With his wrists fettered with a pair of handcuffs, Christy needed
assistance to mount the vessel's side. He was handled with more
consideration than he expected, and reached the deck without any injury.
By the order of the captain he was conducted to the cabin, where he
seated himself on a stool near the companion-way. A few minutes later
Percy came down the steps with a valise in his hand, which he deposited
in one of the staterooms.

"I am your fellow-passenger, Christy," said he, when he came out of the
room. "I hope we shall be good friends."

"After the treachery which has been practised upon me to-day, there
cannot be much love wasted between us, though I am not disposed to be a
bear, even under the present unfavorable circumstances," replied the
prisoner. "I suppose this steamer is to run the blockade?"

"Of course she is to run the blockade; how else could she get into
Mobile?" replied Percy.

"You can bet your worthless life she is going to run the blockade, and
you may be sure that she will get in too," added Captain Flanger, who
came into the cabin at the moment the question was asked.

"By the way, Christy, from what prison in the Confederacy did you make
your escape?"

"If you will excuse me, I prefer to answer no questions."

"Just as you please, my boy. We shall know all about it when we get to
Mobile," said Percy lightly. "I am going home for a few days to see my
mother, who is in feeble health. I don't want to quarrel with you; and
if I can be of any service to you after we get into port, I shall be
happy to do so. We sail at about five o'clock in the morning, on the
high tide."

"Captain Passford," began the commander, in a more subdued tone than the
prisoner had ever heard him use.

"That title does not apply to me now, Captain Flanger," Christy
interposed. "If I ever get back to my duty on shipboard, it will be as
second lieutenant of the Bellevite."

"Mr. Passford, if that suits you better, I was going to say that I mean
to treat you like a gentleman, whether you are one or not, in spite of
my shattered and battered nose," added the captain.

"I do not consider myself responsible for the condition of your nose,
Captain Flanger. At the time you received that wound you were engaged in
a daring adventure, with two revolvers in your hands, ready to blow my
brains out. It was war, and I did nothing but my plain duty; and even in
a time of peace I had the natural right to defend myself, and save my
own life, even at the sacrifice of yours, as you were the assailant,"
argued Christy quite warmly. "You would have put a ball through my head
or heart if I had not fired at the moment I did."

"Why didn't you shoot me like a gentleman, and not blow my nose off?"
demanded the captain bitterly.

"I had to fire in a hurry; and I did not aim at your nose. I could only
discharge my weapon on the instant, and I had no time to aim at any
particular part of you. I intended simply to cover your head."

"But you blowed my nose off all the same."

"I had no grudge against your nose. Do you think it would be honorable
for a soldier to revenge himself on neutral ground for a wound received
in the field?"

"But it was a sneaking Yankee trick to shoot at a man's nose, even in a
square battle by sea or by land," protested the captain with a rattling
oath.

It was useless to discuss the matter with such a man, though he had
probably been charged by Colonel Pierson not to do his prisoner any
injury, and Christy relapsed into silence.

"If you propose to treat me like a gentleman, whether I am one or not,
may I ask where you propose to berth me, for I am very much fatigued
to-night?" asked the prisoner later in the evening.

"I mean to give you as good a stateroom as I have myself; but it will
contain two berths, and the mate will occupy the lower one, to prevent
you from escaping, if you should take it into your head to do so,"
replied the captain, as he opened the door of one of the rooms.

"I can hardly get into the upper berth with my wrists ironed," said the
prisoner, exhibiting his fetters.

"That is so," replied the captain, taking the key of the manacles from
his pocket and removing them. "But I warn you that any attempt to escape
may get you into a worse scrape than you are in now. When we get to sea
you shall have your liberty."

"Thank you, Captain, for this indulgence. I suppose you will not make a
long voyage of it to Mobile. I presume you go to the northward of Great
Abaco Island?" asked Christy, though he hardly expected to receive an
answer to his question.

"Why do you presume such a stupid idea as that?" demanded the captain,
who seemed to regard the inquiry as an imputation upon his seamanship;
and the inquirer had put the question to provoke an answer. "I have been
sailing nearly all my life in these waters, and I know where I am. Why
should I add three hundred miles to my voyage when there is no reason
for it?"

"I am not much acquainted down here."

"I shall go through the North-west, or Providence Channel."

Captain Flanger did not know that the steamer Chateaugay was cruising
somewhere in the vicinity of the Bahamas; but his prisoner did know it,
and the information given him was not pleasant or satisfactory. Captain
Chantor had told him that he intended to stand off and to the eastward
of Great Abaco, and he had been cherishing a hope that he would fall in
with the Snapper, though he might not find evidence enough on board of
her to warrant her capture.

If he fell in with the steamer, he would be likely to examine her; and
that would lead to the release of the involuntary passenger. But if the
Snapper went through the Providence Channel, the Chateaugay would not be
likely to fall in with her. It looked to the unfortunate officer as
though he was booked for a rebel prison. He could see no hope of escape,
though he was duly grateful for the change which had come over his
vicious persecutor. If he was allowed his liberty, he might find some
avenue of escape open. It was useless to groan over his fate, and he did
not groan; but he had come to the conclusion that it would be a long
time before he took possession of his stateroom in the ward room of the
Bellevite.

Availing himself of the permission given to him, he went into the room,
and turned in with his clothes on, so that he might be in readiness for
any event. Mr. Gilfleur would miss him at the rendezvous agreed upon;
but he would have no means of knowing that anything had happened to him.
Tired as he was, he was not inclined to sleep. Presently he heard a
conversation which was not intended for his ears, for it was carried on
in very low tones.

"Do you know, Captain Flanger, that I believe we are getting into a very
bad scrape?" said Percy Pierson in a subdued tone.

"What are you afraid of?" demanded the captain, in a voice hardly above
a whisper.

"My father refused at first to permit the capture of Passford," added
Percy. "He would consent to it only after you had promised to treat him
well."

"I am treating him as well as I know how, though it goes against my
grain. We will get him into the jail in Mobile, and keep him there till
the Yankees have acknowledged the independence of the Confederacy, and
paid for all the damage they have done to our country. How is any one in
Washington or London to know anything about this little affair of
to-night?"

"I don't know how; but if it should get out, the Yankees would make an
awful row, and England would be obliged to do something about it."

"But we must make sure that it does not get out. The young cub has a
deal of spirit and pluck, and he would not live long if he were shut up
on such rations as our men have."

Percy seemed to be better satisfied than he had been, and the
conversation turned to other subjects in which the listener had no
interest. Without much of an effort he turned over and went to sleep.
When he woke in the morning he heard the tramp of footsteps on the deck
over his head, and he concluded that the steamer was getting under way.
If the mate had slept in the berth below him, he had not seen or heard
him. He leaped out of the bed, and descended to the floor. When he tried
the door he found that it was locked.

Presently he heard the movement of the screw, and felt the motion of the
vessel. There was a port light to the room, and he placed himself where
he could see out at it. But there was nothing to be seen which afforded
him any hope of comfort. There must be a pilot on board, and he began to
wonder if there could be any way to communicate with him. He took from
his pocket a piece of paper and pencil. He wrote a brief statement of
the outrage which had been perpetrated upon him, folded the paper, and
put it in his vest pocket, where he could readily slip it into the hand
of the pilot, if he found the opportunity to do so. The captain had
promised to give him his liberty when the vessel got out to sea, and he
hoped to be able to go on deck before the pilot left the steamer.

The Snapper continued to go ahead, and in a short time she made a sort
of a plunge, as she went over the bar. The motion of the steamer began
to be rather violent, and Christy saw through the port the white caps
that indicated a strong north-west wind. When the vessel had continued
on her course for a couple of hours, she stopped, and the prisoner saw
the pilot boat drop astern a little later. The opportunity to deliver
his statement had passed by, and he tore up the paper, keeping the
fragments in his pocket, so that they should not expose his intention.

He had scarcely destroyed the paper before his door was thrown open by
Percy Pierson, who informed him that he was at liberty to go on deck if
he wished to do so. He accepted the permission. He could see the land in
the distance in several directions, but he had no interest in anything.
He was called to breakfast soon after, and he took a hearty meal, for
the situation had not yet affected his appetite. In the middle of the
forenoon, with the light at Hole in the Wall on the starboard, and that
on Stirrup Cay on the port, the course of the Snapper was changed to the
north-west.

At this point Christy discovered a three-masted steamer, which had also
excited the attention of Captain Flanger. It looked like the Chateaugay;
and the prisoner's heart bounded with emotion.




CHAPTER XXIII

THE CHATEAUGAY IN THE DISTANCE


The steamer which Christy had discovered was a long distance from the
Snapper. She had just come about, and this movement had enabled the
prisoner to see that she had three masts; but that was really all there
was to lead him to suppose she was the Chateaugay. She was too far off
for him to make her out; and if he had not known that she was cruising
to the eastward of the Bahamas, it would not have occurred to him that
she was the steamer in which he had been a passenger two days before.

Captain Flanger discovered the sail a few minutes later, and fixed his
attention upon it. In the business in which he was engaged it was
necessary to practise the most unceasing vigilance. But, at this
distance from any Confederate port, the commander of the steamer did not
appear to be greatly disturbed at the sight of a distant sail, believing
that his danger was nearer the shores of the Southern States. Doubtless
he had papers of some sort which would show that his vessel had cleared
for Havana, or some port on the Gulf of Mexico.

Christy did not deem it wise to manifest any interest in the distant
sail, and, fixing his gaze upon the deck-planks, he continued to walk
back and forth, as he was doing when he discovered the steamer. He had
not been able to make out her course. He had first seen her when she was
in the act of turning, obtaining only a glance at the three masts.
Whether or not she was "end-on" for the Snapper, he could not determine,
and Captain Flanger seemed to be studying up this question with no
little earnestness.

The principal mission in these waters of the Chateaugay was to look up
the Ovidio, of which Captain Passford in New York had obtained some
information through his agents. This vessel was not simply a
blockade-runner, but was intended for a cruiser, though she had sailed
from Scotland without an armament. It was known that she would proceed
to Nassau, and this fact had suggested to Mr. Gilfleur his visit to that
port to obtain reliable information in regard to her, as well as
incidentally to look into the methods of fitting out vessels for running
the blockade.

Captain Chantor was expecting to fall in with the Ovidio, even before
the return of his two passengers. He did not believe the authorities at
Nassau would permit her to take on board an armament at that port; but a
rendezvous had probably been arranged, where she was to receive her guns
and ammunition. But the only safe channel for any vessel to get to the
deep sea from Nassau was by the one that had received the name of
Providence. This channel is a continuation of what is called "The Tongue
of the Ocean," which extends over a hundred miles south of New
Providence, a hundred and fifty fathoms in depth, and bordered by
innumerable cays, reefs, and very shoal water.

South of Great Abaco Island, this channel, from thirty to forty miles
wide, divides into the North-east and North-west Channels, and all
vessels of any great draught can safely get out to sea only through one
of them. It was evident enough to Captain Chantor, who was familiar with
the navigation of these seas, that the Ovidio must come out through one
of the channels indicated. Christy had talked with the commander of the
Chateaugay in regard to these passages, and knew that it was his
intention to keep a close watch over them.

He could not be sure that the steamer in the distance was the
Chateaugay; but the more he recalled what had passed between himself and
Captain Chantor, and considered the situation, the stronger became his
hope that it was she. He was sure that she had come about, and he
reasoned that she had done so when her commander ascertained that the
steamer he had sighted laid her course through the North-west Channel.
This was as far as he could carry his speculations.

Without understanding the situation as well as did his prisoner, Captain
Flanger seemed to be nervous and uneasy. He watched the distant sail for
a long time, sent for his spy-glass and examined her, and then began to
plank the deck. When he came abreast of Christy he stopped.

"Do you see that sail off to the eastward, Mr. Passford?"

"I see it now, Captain," replied the prisoner, as indifferently as
possible, for he felt that it would be very imprudent to manifest any
interest in the matter.

"Can you make out what she is?" continued the captain.

"I cannot; she must be eight or ten miles from us," replied Christy,
as he glanced to the eastward.

"I shouldn't wonder if that was one of your Yankee gunboats," added
Captain Flanger, spicing his remark with a heavy oath, for he could
hardly say anything without interlarding his speech with profanity.

"It may be, for aught I know," replied the prisoner with something like
a yawn.

"Whatever she is, the Snapper can run away from her, and you need not
flatter yourself that there is any chance for you to escape from a
Confederate prison; and when they get you into it, they will hold on
very tight."

"I must take things as they come," added Christy.

He wanted to ask the captain why he wondered if the sail was a Yankee
gunboat, but he did not think it would be prudent to do so. The captain
seemed to have, or pretended to have, great confidence in the speed of
the Snapper. When he left his prisoner he went to the engine-room, and
it was soon evident from the jar and shake of the vessel that he had
instructed the chief engineer to increase the speed.

Christy watched the distant sail for about three hours before he could
come to any conclusion. At the end of this time he was satisfied that
the three-masted steamer was gaining very decidedly upon the Snapper. He
began to cherish a very lively hope that the sail would prove to be the
Chateaugay. Captain Flanger remained on deck all the forenoon, and every
hour that elapsed found him more nervous and excitable.

"I reckon that's a Yankee gunboat astern of us, Mr. Passford; but I am
going to get away from her," said the captain, as they sat down to
dinner.

"Is she gaining upon you, Captain?" asked Christy.

"I don't think she is; but if she does get any nearer to us, I shall
give her the slip. The Snapper is going into Mobile Bay as sure as you
live. You can bet your life on it," insisted the captain.

Christy was not disposed to converse on the subject, and he began to
wonder in what manner the Snapper could give her pursuer the slip. The
former was the smaller vessel, and probably did not draw over fourteen
feet of water, if she did more than twelve. It might be possible for her
to run into shoal water where the pursuer could not follow her.

After the dinner table was cleared off, the captain seated himself at it
with a chart spread out before him. It was plain enough that he was
devising some expedient to escape the three-master. Christy did not deem
it prudent to observe him, and he went on deck. It was as clear as the
daylight that the pursuer was gaining rapidly upon the Snapper; and the
prisoner did not believe that the latter was making over twelve knots.

By this time seven hours had elapsed since the distant sail had come in
sight, and she was now near enough for the prisoner to be sure that she
was the Chateaugay. She could make sixteen knots when driven at her
best, and she must be gaining four or five knots an hour on the chase.
Christy had been through this channel in the Bellevite, and he
discovered that the steamer was running near the shoal water. Presently
the captain came on deck, and he appeared to be less nervous than
before, perhaps because he had arranged his plan to escape his pursuer.

Within an hour Christy recognized the East Isaac, a rock rising ten or
twelve feet above the surface of the water, which he identified by its
nearness to one over which the sea was breaking. The captain was too
much occupied in the study of the surroundings to take any notice of
him, and he endeavored to keep out of his sight.

The prisoner consulted his watch, and found it was four o'clock. The
tower of the Great Isaac light could just be made out. The Chateaugay
was not more than four miles astern of the Snapper, and in another hour
she would certainly come up with her, if Captain Flanger did not put his
plan into execution. The course of the chase continued to bring her
nearer to the reefs.

"Ring one bell!" shouted the captain to the quartermaster at the wheel.

The effect of one bell was to reduce the speed of the Snapper by
one-half. The order to put the helm hard a starboard followed in a short
time. The course was made about south, and the steamer went ahead
slowly. Two men in the chains were heaving the lead constantly. They
were reporting four and five fathoms. After the vessel had gone five or
six miles on this course, it was changed to about south-west. She was
then moving in a direction directly opposite to that of the Chateaugay,
and the anxious prisoner could see the man-of-war across the reefs which
lifted their heads above the water, very nearly abreast of the Snapper,
though at least ten miles distant from her.

"Do you know what steamer that is, Mr. Passford?" asked Captain Flanger,
coming aft, apparently for the purpose of finding him.

"How should I know, Captain?" asked Christy.

"I thought you might know her by sight."

"I could hardly be expected to know all the ships in the United States
navy by sight, Captain, for there are a great many of them by this
time."

"All right; she looks like a pretty large vessel, and the bigger the
better. I hope you won't get up a disappointment for yourself by
expecting that you are going to get out of this scrape," said Captain
Flanger, and there was a great deal of bitterness in his tones.

"I am taking things as they come, Captain."

"The Snapper is not a man-of-war, and she is engaged in a peaceful
voyage. If that fellow thinks of capturing me, he is reckoning without
his host. He has no more right to make a prize of me than he has to
murder me," protested the captain, as he gave the order to hoist the
British flag.

"Of course you know your business better than I do, Captain Flanger, and
I don't propose to interfere with it," replied Christy.

The commander walked forward again, giving the order to the
quartermaster to ring two bells, which presently brought the steamer to
a full stop, quite near the rocks which were awash to the northward of
her. As the captain moved forward he encountered the first officer in
the waist, who addressed him, and they began a conversation, none of
which Christy could hear. From the looks and gestures of the mate, he
concluded that they were talking about him.

It was not difficult to imagine the subject of the conversation, and it
was evident to Christy that the first officer had suggested an idea to
his commander. While he was waiting impatiently to ascertain what the
Chateaugay would do next, Percy Pierson came on deck looking very pale,
for it had been reported at breakfast that he was very sea-sick.

"How are you, Christy?" asked the Southerner.

"I am very well, I thank you."

"Haven't you been sea-sick?" asked the invalid.

"Of course not; I never was sea-sick."

"But what has the steamer stopped for?" asked Percy, looking about him.

"Captain Flanger seems to think that vessel over there is a United
States man-of-war."

"Will she capture the Snapper?" asked the sufferer, looking paler than
before.

At this moment a boat was lowered from the davits into the water, and
Christy was invited by the mate to take a seat in the stern sheets. He
was astounded at this request, and wondered what it meant.




CHAPTER XXIV

THE TABLES TURNED


Christy understood the character of Captain Flanger well enough to be
confident he meant mischief to him in getting him into the boat. He
concluded that this movement was the result of the conference with the
mate. He had a suspicion that his terrible enemy intended to drown him,
or get rid of him in some other manner.

"May I ask where I am to be taken in the boat, Mr. Dawbin?" asked the
prisoner, suppressing as much as he could the excitement that disturbed
him.

"I give you leave to ask, but I cannot answer you," replied the mate.

"If you intend to put me on board of that steamer, it can do no harm to
say so, I think," added Christy.

"If you will excuse me, Mr. Passford, I cannot answer any questions.
I ask you again to get into the boat," said Mr. Dawbin.

"Well, sir, suppose I decline to do so?"

"Then I shall be compelled to use force, and tumble you into the boat in
the best way I can, with the assistance of my men."

"If you intend to murder me, why can't you do the deed here on deck?"
demanded the prisoner.

"I don't intend to murder you."

"That is some consolation. That lighthouse on the Great Isaac is the
only place to which you can convey me, and that is sixteen miles from
this steamer. I can't believe you intend to pull me that distance."

"No fooling there!" shouted the captain. "What are you waiting for, Mr.
Dawbin? Why don't you obey my order?"

"The fellow wants to talk," replied the mate.

"If he won't get into the boat, pitch him into it like a dead dog!"

Christy saw that it was useless to resist, though he had a revolver in
his pocket which had not been taken from him, for he had not been
searched. The mate and two sailors stood in front of him, and he
realized that he could accomplish nothing by resistance under present
circumstances. He thought he could do better in the boat after it was
beyond the reach of any reinforcements from the steamer. He went over
the side, and took his place in the stern sheets.

The mate followed him, and the two men, one of whom was hardly more than
a boy, took their places on the thwarts. The boat was shoved off, and
the prisoner had an immediate interest in the course it was about to
steer. The mate arranged the tiller lines, and then looked about him.

He directed his gaze towards the north, and seemed to be trying to find
some object or point. He satisfied himself in some manner, and then
resumed his seat, from which he had risen in order to obtain a better
view over the waves. The passenger had watched him closely, and found
that his vision had been directed towards the rocks awash and the East
Isaac rock. Towards these objects he steered the boat. The Chateaugay
was at least three miles to the eastward of these rocks.

Christy watched the course of the boat long enough to satisfy himself
that it was headed for the rocks, which were awash at high tide, though
they now looked like a minute island. There could be but one object in
visiting this locality: and that must be to leave him on that desolate
reef. The wind was still fresh from the north-west, and the spray was
dashed over the rocks in a manner which suggested that a human being
could not remain long on it after the tide was high without being
washed off. It was little better than murder to leave him there, and he
knew very well that Captain Flanger would shed no tears if assured that
his troublesome prisoner was no more.

Christy decided that he would not be left on the reef, or even on the
top of the East Isaac, which might be a drier place, though hardly more
comfortable. It must have been Mr. Dawbin who had suggested the idea of
landing him on the reef, for there was no other place nearer than the
Great Isaac light. Captain Flanger had boasted that he sailed a vessel
on a peaceful mission, and that the commander of the Chateaugay had no
more right to capture him than he had to murder him. But the prisoner
knew that the Snapper was to run the blockade, and was bound to Mobile,
for the captain had told him so himself.

The commander could now see the folly of his boast. He had not expected
to encounter a United States man-of-war in the Bahamas. His prisoner was
a naval officer, and would be a strong witness against him. Upon his
testimony, and such other evidence as the cargo and other circumstances
might supply, the captain of the steamer in the channel might feel
justified in making a prize of the Snapper. It was necessary, therefore,
to remove this witness against him. As Christy had imagined, the captain
had not thought of his prisoner as a witness, and the mate had suggested
it to him.

"I suppose I need not ask you what is to be done with me, for that is
sufficiently apparent now," said Christy, more to engage the attention
of the mate than for any other reason.

"You can form your own conclusion," replied Mr. Dawbin.

"You intend to leave me on that reef ahead, and doubtless you expect me
to be washed off and drowned, or starved to death there," added the
prisoner. "I can't see why you take all this trouble when you could more
conveniently blow my brains out."

"The captain has promised not to harm you, Mr. Passford, and he will
keep his word," replied the mate with very ill grace.

"I consider it worse than murder to leave me on that reef, or any of
these rocks, Mr. Dawbin. Since I understand your intention, I might as
well put a bullet through my own head, and save myself from all the
suffering in store for me," said Christy, assuming the manner of one
rendered desperate by his situation. "Have you a revolver in your
pocket?"

"I have not a revolver in my pocket; and if I had I should not lend it
to you to shoot yourself," replied the mate.

Mr. Dawbin had no revolver in his pocket, and that was all the prisoner
had been driving at. He was equally confident that neither of the
sailors was armed, for he had looked them over to see if there was any
appearance of pistols in their pockets.

"You are making altogether too much fuss over this little matter, Mr.
Passford. The captain desires you to remain on one of these rocks till
he gets through his business with the commander of that steamer in the
channel, which is now headed for the Snapper," the mate explained. "When
that is finished we will take you off and proceed on our voyage."

"You had better put a bullet through my head."

"I don't think so. It is no great hardship for you to stay a few hours
on that rock. You have had your dinner, and you will not starve to
death. I don't think you will have to stay there long, for that steamer
draws too much water to come in among these reefs, and she will be hard
and fast on one of the shoals before she goes much farther."

"Possibly her captain knows what he is about as well as you do,"
suggested Christy.

"I don't believe he does. There isn't a fathom of water on some of these
shoals."

But the Chateaugay kept on her course, though she proceeded very slowly.
When she was off the Gingerbread Cay she stopped her screw, and she was
near enough for the observer to see that she was lowering at least two
boats into the water. In a few minutes more they were seen pulling
towards the Snapper, whose boat was now very near the reef which had
been selected as the prisoner's abiding-place. A few minutes later the
keel ground on the coral rock.

"Jump ashore, both of you, and take the painter with you, my men," said
the mate, when the boat stuck about six feet from the top of the ledge.

The two sailors waded to the highest part of the reef, and began to haul
in on the painter; but they could not get it anything less than three
feet from the rock.

"We can't get the boat any nearer, Mr. Passford; but you are a vigorous
young man, and you can easily leap to the rock," said Mr. Dawbin.

"Do you think you could leap to the ledge?" asked Christy, looking him
sharp in the eye.

"I know I could."

"Let me see you try it, Mr. Dawbin," replied Christy, with his right
hand on his revolver.

"Come, come! Mr. Passford. No fooling. I have no time to spare," growled
the mate.

"I am not fooling. As you consider it no hardship to pass a few hours on
that rock, I am going to trouble you to take my place there."

"No nonsense! I am not to be trifled with!"

"Neither am I," added the prisoner, as he drew out his weapon, and aimed
it at the head of the mate. "You can take your choice between the rock
and a ball from my revolver, Mr. Dawbin."

"Do you mean to murder me?" demanded the mate.

"I hope you will not compel me to do so harsh a thing as that. But no
fooling! I have no time to spare. Jump on the rock, or I will fire
before you are ten seconds older!" said Christy resolutely.

"Come back into the boat, men!" shouted the officer.

"The first one that comes any nearer the boat is a dead man!" added the
prisoner, "Five seconds gone, Mr. Dawbin."

The mate did not wait for anything more, but made the leap to the rock.
He accomplished it so hastily that he fell when he struck the ledge; but
the impetus he had given the boat forced it from the rock, and sent it a
considerable distance. Christy restored the revolver to his pocket, and,
taking one of the oars, he sculled towards the Chateaugay, which was now
much nearer than the Snapper. The two boats from the man-of-war took no
notice of him, and perhaps did not see him.

Taking out his white handkerchief he attached it to the blade of one of
the oars, and waved it with all his might in the direction of the
steamer. He set it up in the mast-hole through the forward thwart, and
then continued to scull. But his signal was soon seen, and a boat came
off from the steamer.

  [Illustration:
  "Jump on the rock or I will fire before you are ten seconds older."
  Page 276.]

"Boat ahoy!" shouted the officer in charge of the cutter.

"In the boat!" replied Christy, turning around as he suspended his labor
with the oar.

"Lieutenant Passford!" exclaimed Mr. Hackling, the second lieutenant of
the Chateaugay. "Is it possible that it is you?"

"I haven't any doubt of it, Mr. Hackling, if you have," replied the late
prisoner, heartily rejoiced to find himself in good company again.

"But what does this mean? How do you happen to be here?" demanded the
astonished lieutenant of the ship.

"I happen to be here because I have just played a sharp game. I was a
prisoner on that steamer yonder, on my way to a rebel prison. But I
think it is necessary that I should report immediately to Captain
Chantor in regard to the character of the Snapper, which is the name of
the vessel you have been chasing."

The Snapper's boat was taken in tow, and the crew of the cutter gave way
with a will. In due time Christy was received with the most unbounded
astonishment by the commander on the deck of the Chateaugay.

"Where is Mr. Gilfleur? I hope that no accident has happened to him,"
said the captain with deep anxiety on his face.

"None that I am aware of; but if you will excuse me from explanations
for the present, I will state that the steamer on the bank is the
Snapper, Captain Flanger, bound for Mobile; and the captain told me that
he intended to run the blockade."

"Mr. Hackling, take charge of the second cutter, and give Mr. Birdwing
my order to make a prize of that steamer, and bring her off to the deep
water."

It was quite dark when this order was executed.




CHAPTER XXV

CAPTAIN FLANGER IN IRONS


Christy Passford related to Captain Chantor all that had occurred to the
detective and himself from the time of their departure from the ship to
their parting on the shore; and he did not fail to mention the fact that
Mr. Gilfleur had come to his assistance when he was assaulted by the
ruffian in front of the saloon.

"You have had a narrow escape, Mr. Passford," said the commander, when
he had concluded. "The idea of avenging an injury received in that way
is something I never happened to hear of before, though my experience is
not unlimited. Mr. Birdwing," he continued, after the first lieutenant
had reported to him, "had you any difficulty in effecting the capture of
the Snapper?"

"Only with the captain; for my force was sufficient to have taken her if
she had been fully armed and manned. There was no fighting; but I was
obliged to put the captain in irons, for he was about the ugliest and
most unreasonable man I ever encountered," replied the chief of the boat
expedition. "I was not at all satisfied that the steamer was a fit
subject for capture till your order came to me, brought by Mr. Hackling.
Then Captain Flanger not only protested, with more bad language than I
ever before heard in the same time, but he absolutely refused to yield.
I could not give him the reasons that induced you to send me the order,
and I referred the matter to you."

The Snapper had been anchored within a cable's length of the Chateaugay,
and Mr. Birdwing had brought Captain Flanger on board of the ship, with
Percy Pierson, that the question of prize might be definitely settled by
the commander, for he was not quite satisfied himself. The captain of
the Snapper was still in irons, and he and his companion had been put
under guard in the waist. The man with the mutilated nose had not yet
seen Christy, and possibly he was still wondering what had become of his
chief officer and the two men who had been ordered to put the prisoner
on the ledge.

Christy had informed Captain Chantor, in his narrative, of the manner in
which he had turned the tables on his custodians, and he had not
forgotten that the party were still where he had left them. He reminded
the commander of the latter fact, and a quartermaster was sent in the
third cutter to bring them off, and put them on board of the Snapper;
where a considerable force still remained under the charge of Mr.
Carlin, the third lieutenant.

"Now we will settle this matter with the captain of the Snapper, and I
hope to convince him that his vessel is a lawful prize, so far as she
can be so declared in advance of the decision of the court," said
Captain Chantor. "Come with me, if you please, Mr. Birdwing. For the
present, Mr. Passford, will you oblige me by keeping in the shade till I
send for you?"

"Certainly, Captain Chantor, though I should like to hear what Captain
Flanger has to say in defence of his steamer," replied the passenger.
"But I will take care not to show myself to him till you are ready for
me."

"I do not object to that arrangement. I do not quite understand who this
Percy Pierson is, though you mentioned him in your report of what had
occurred during your absence," added the commander.

"He is the son of Colonel Richard Pierson, a Confederate commissioner,
who represents his government at Nassau, purchasing vessels as
opportunity to do so is found. His son is the person who tried to induce
me to take passage in the Snapper, with the promise that I should be
permitted to land at Key West. It was only a trick to get me on board of
the steamer; and when it failed, for I declined to fall into the trap,
I was captured by a gang of four or five ruffians, Captain Flanger being
one of them, and conveyed to the vessel, where I was locked up in a
stateroom till after she had sailed."

"That is a proper question for the British government to deal with, and
I hope it will be put in the way of adjustment by the proper officials,
though I am inclined to regard it as an act of war, which will justify
me in holding the men engaged in the outrage as prisoners. Do you know
who they are, Mr. Passford?"

"I can designate only three of them,--the captain, Mr. Dawbin, the mate,
who is now on the ledge, and Percy Pierson. I am sure they were all in
the carriage that conveyed me to the beach where I was put into the
boat. The others were sailors, and I could not identify them."

"I will hold the three you name as prisoners," added Captain Chantor,
as he moved forward, followed by the executive officer.

It was getting dark, and Christy made his way to the shadow of the
mainmast, where he obtained a position that enabled him to hear all that
passed without being seen himself. Captain Flanger seemed to be more
subdued than he had been reported to be on board of the Snapper, and the
commander ordered the irons to be taken from his wrists.

"Captain Flanger, I have concluded to make a prize of the Snapper; but I
am willing to hear anything you may wish to offer," Captain Chantor
began.

"I protest; you have no more right to make a prize of my vessel than you
have to capture a British man-of-war, if you were able to do such a
thing," replied the commander of the Snapper.

"Do you claim that the Snapper is a British vessel?"

"Yes, I do!" blustered Captain Flanger recklessly.

"Are you a British subject?"

"No, I am not; but I am not attempting to run the blockade."

"For what port are you bound?"

"Havana."

"Have you a clearance for that port?"

"For Havana, and a market."

"But you have no more idea of going to Havana than you have of going to
China," added the captain of the Chateaugay. "You are bound to Mobile,
and you intend to run the blockade; and that intention proved, you are
liable to capture."

"You seem to know my business better than I know it myself," said
Captain Flanger, with a sneer in his tones.

"Perhaps I know it quite as well as you do, at least so far as the
voyage of the Snapper is concerned," replied the commander of the
Chateaugay, who proceeded to explain international law in relation to
the intention to run the blockade. "I shall be able to prove in the
court which sits upon your case that you left Nassau for the purpose
of running the blockade established at the entrance of Mobile Bay.
I presume that will be enough to satisfy both you and the court. In
Nassau you did not hesitate to announce your intention to run the
blockade, and get into Mobile."

"I should like to see you prove it," growled the captain of the Snapper,
in his sneering tones.

"I don't think you would like to see me do it; but I will take you at
your word, and prove it now. I have an excellent witness, to whom you
made your announcement;" and at this remark Christy stepped out from
behind the mainmast, and placed himself in front of the astounded
ruffian. "Lieutenant Passford, a naval officer in excellent repute,
is all ready to make oath to your assertions."

Captain Flanger and Percy Pierson gazed in silence at the witness, for
they supposed he was on the ledge to which he had been transported by
the boat. Christy repeated what he had said before, and stated in what
manner he had been made a prisoner on board of the Snapper.

"For this outrage in a neutral port I shall hold you and Mr. Pierson as
prisoners, leaving the government to determine what steps shall be taken
in regard to you; but I trust you will be handed over to the authorities
at Nassau, to be properly punished for the outrage."

Of course this decision did not suit Captain Flanger; and Percy Pierson
appeared to be intensely alarmed at the prospect before him. Captain
Chantor, after consulting with his naval passenger, determined to send
the Snapper to Key West, from which she could readily be despatched to
New York if occasion should require. Mr. Carlin was appointed
prize-master, with a sufficient crew; and at daylight the next morning
he sailed for his destination.

The boat which had been sent for the mate and two men belonging to the
Snapper put them on board of the steamer; but the captain and the
passenger were retained on board of the Chateaugay. The man with the
mutilated nose was so disgusted at the loss of his vessel, and with the
decision of his captor, that he could not contain himself; and it became
necessary not only to restore his irons, but also to commit him to the
"brig," which is the ship's prison.

"What is to become of me, Christy?" asked Percy in the evening, overcome
with terror at the prospect before him.

"That is more than I can inform you," replied Christy coldly.

"But we had no intention of doing you any harm; and we treated you well
after you went on board of the Snapper."

"You committed a dastardly outrage upon me; but your punishment will be
left to others."

"But I had no intention to do you any harm," pleaded Percy.

"No more lies! You have told me enough since I met you."

"But I am speaking the truth now," protested the frightened Southerner.

"No, you are not; the truth is not in you! Did you mean me no harm when
you attempted to entice me on board of the Snapper? Did you mean me no
harm when you engaged Flanger and his ruffians to make me a prisoner,
and put me on board of his steamer? It was a flagrant outrage from
beginning to end; for I had the same rights in Nassau that you and your
father had, and both of you abused the hospitality of the place when you
assaulted me."

"You were a prisoner of the Confederacy, and had escaped in a
blockade-runner; and I thought it was no more than right that you should
be returned to your prison," Percy explained.

"I had the right to escape if I could, and was willing to take the risk;
and my capture in Nassau was a cowardly trick. But I did not escape from
a Confederate prison."

"You told me you did."

"I did not; that was a conclusion to which you jumped with very little
help from me."

"I thought I was doing my duty to my country."

"Then you were an idiot. You have done your best to compromise your
country, as you call it, with the British government. If your father is
not sent out of Nassau, I shall lose my guess as a Yankee."

"But my father would not allow Captain Flanger to do you any harm; for
he was bent upon hanging you as soon as he got out of sight of land, and
he sent me with you to see my mother in order to prevent him from
carrying out his threat."

"You would have been a powerful preventive in the face of such a brutal
ruffian as Captain Flanger," said Christy with a sneer. "You have lied
to me before about your father, and I cannot believe anything you say."

"I am speaking the truth now; my father saved your life. I heard him
tell Flanger that he would lose the command of the Snapper if any harm
came to you."

"If he did so, he did it from the fear of the British authorities.
I have nothing more to say about it."

"But as my father saved your life, you ought to stand by me in this
scrape," pleaded Percy.

"Whatever was done by you or your father for me, was done from the fear
of consequences; and you were the originator of the outrage against me,"
added Christy, as he descended to the ward room.

The next morning the Snapper was on her voyage to Key West, and the
Chateaugay headed for the Hole in the Wall, though she gave it a wide
berth, and stood off to the eastward. The next night, being the fourth
since the Eleuthera left the ship, the boat containing Mr. Gilfleur was
picked up about twenty miles east of the lights. The detective came on
board, and was welcomed by the captain, who had been called by his own
order.




CHAPTER XXVI

A VISIT TO TAMPA BAY


As soon as Mr. Gilfleur had been welcomed back to the Chateaugay the
commander gave the order to the officer of the deck to have the Bahama
boat hoisted to the deck, and disposed of as before.

"I beg your pardon, Captain Chantor; but be so kind as to allow the boat
to remain alongside, for I must return to Nassau," interposed the
detective.

"Return to Nassau!" exclaimed the captain.

"Yes, sir; it is really necessary that I should do so, for you see that
I have come back without Mr. Passford," replied the Frenchman. "He was
attacked by a cowardly ruffian in front of a saloon in the town, and I
lost sight of him after that. I have been terribly distressed about him,
for the ruffian threatened to kill him, and I fear he has executed his
threat."

"Don't distress yourself for another instant, Mr. Gilfleur, for Mr.
Passford is on board of the ship at this moment, and doubtless asleep in
his stateroom," said the captain, cutting short the narrative of the
detective.

"On board of the ship!" exclaimed the Frenchman, retreating a few paces
in his great surprise. "Impossible! Quite impossible! I found our boat
just where we had left it at the back side of the island."

"But what I say is entirely true; and Mr. Passford wished me to have him
called when you came on board," added the commander, as he sent a
quartermaster to summon Christy to the captain's cabin.

"I don't understand how Mr. Passford can be on board of the ship,"
continued the bewildered Frenchman. "Ah, he might have hired a boat like
the Eleuthera to bring him off."

"He might have done so, but he did not," replied Captain Chantor, as he
directed the officer of the deck to go ahead, making the course east, as
soon as he had secured the detective's boat. "Now, if you will come to
my cabin, Mr. Gilfleur, Mr. Passford shall inform you himself that he is
on board of the ship; and he has quite an exciting story to tell."

The commander and the Frenchman went below, and seated themselves in the
cabin of the former.

"Mr. Passford has already informed me that the Ovidio is at Nassau, but
that she has been seized by a British gunboat for violation of the
neutrality laws," said the captain.

"That is quite true, and it is not probable that the case will be
settled for a month to come," replied Mr. Gilfleur. "But I ascertained
by great good luck that her armament was waiting for her at Green Cay,
if you know where that is: I do not."

"It is on the Tongue of the Ocean, as it is called, nearly a hundred
miles to the southward of Nassau. I supposed it would be managed in some
such way as that," added the commander. "But do you think it will be a
month before her case will be settled?"

"Of course I know nothing about it myself; but I found a court official
who was very desirous of talking French, and he invited me to dine with
him at his house. I began to ask him questions about the blockade, and
the vessels in the harbor; and finally he gave me his opinion that a
decision in the case of the Ovidio could not be reached in less than a
month, and it might be two mouths."

At this moment there was a knock at the door of the cabin, and the
captain called to the person to come in. Christy, who had taken the time
to dress himself fully, opened the door and entered the cabin. The
Frenchman leaped from his seat, and embraced the young officer as though
he had been his wife or sweetheart, from whom he had been separated for
years. Christy, who was not very demonstrative in this direction,
submitted to the hugging with the best possible grace, for he knew that
the detective was sincere, and had actually grown to love him, perhaps
as much for his father's sake as for his own.

"Oh, my dear Mr. Passford, you are to me like one who has come out of
his grave, for I have believed for nearly three days that you had been
killed by the ruffian that attacked you in the street!" exclaimed Mr.
Gilfleur, still pressing both of his late companion's hands in his own.
"I was never so rejoiced in all my life, not even when I had unearthed a
murderer."

"Perhaps you expected to unearth another murderer," said Christy with a
smile.

"That was just what I intended to do. I heard the villanous ruffian
swear that he would kill you, and I was almost sure he had done so when
you failed to meet me in the rear of the hotel."

At the request of the commander, Christy repeated the story of his
adventure in Nassau as briefly as possible, up to the time he had been
picked up by the Chateaugay's cutter, and conveyed on board of the ship.
The detective was deeply interested, and listened to the narration with
the closest attention. At the end of it, he pressed the hand of the
young officer again, and warmly congratulated him upon his escape from
the enemy.

Mr. Gilfleur then reported more in detail than he had done before, the
result of his mission. He gave the names of all the intending
blockade-runners in the harbor of Nassau; but the captain declared that
he could not capture them on any such evidence as the detective had been
able to obtain, for it would not prove the intention.

"The Ovidio may not come out of Nassau for two months to come, and then
she will proceed to Green Cay," said Captain Chantor. "I do not think I
should be justified in waiting so long for her, especially as she is to
run her cargo into Mobile. The blockaders will probably be able to pick
her up. I think my mission in the Bahama Islands is finished, and the
Chateaugay must proceed to more fruitful fields."

"But you have not made a bad voyage of it so far, Captain Chantor,"
added Christy. "You sent in the Ionian, sunk the Dornoch, and captured
the Cadet and the Snapper, to say nothing of bagging a Confederate
commissioner, and the son of another. I should have been glad if you had
sent in Colonel Pierson, for he has already done our commerce a great
deal of mischief."

"I am entirely satisfied, and doubtless the information obtained here
and at the Bermudas will enable our fleet to pick up some more of the
steamers you have spotted," added the captain, as he rose from his seat,
and dismissed his guests.

The Frenchman was so exhausted by his labors, and the want of sleep,
that he retired at once to his room, while Christy went on deck with the
commander. The ship had been working to the eastward for over an hour;
but the order was given for her to come about, and the course was laid
for the light at the Hole in the Wall.

"Now, Mr. Passford, we are bound for the Gulf of Mexico, putting in at
Key West for the purpose of attending to the affair of the Snapper,"
said Captain Chantor. "In a few days more no doubt you will be able to
report for duty on board of the Bellevite."

"I shall not be sorry to be on duty again, and especially in the
Bellevite," replied Christy, as he went to his stateroom to finish his
night's sleep.

The next day the Chateaugay overhauled the Snapper; but all was well on
board of her, and the ship proceeded on her course. On the third day she
went into the harbor of Key West. Christy and the captain went to work
at once on the legal questions relating to the prize last taken. The
evidence was deemed sufficient to warrant the sending of her to New
York, and on her arrival the prize-master was directed to proceed to
that port. Captain Flanger and Percy Pierson were transferred to her,
and she sailed the next day; but she encountered a tremendous storm on
the Atlantic coast, and was totally wrecked on Hetzel Spit, near Cape
Canaveral. The prisoners were put into one boat, which upset, and all in
it were drowned, while the other boat, in charge of Lieutenant Carlin,
succeeded in reaching the shore of Florida.

The Snapper's case was settled, therefore, outside of the courts.
Captain Flanger perished in his wickedness, and Percy Pierson never
reached his mother in Mobile. But it was weeks before the news of the
disaster reached the Chateaugay and the Bellevite. Christy did not mourn
the loss of his great enemy, and he was sorry only that the young man
had not lived long enough to become a better man.

The Chateaugay proceeded on her voyage, and reported to the flag-officer
of the Eastern Gulf Squadron; by whom she was assigned to a place in the
fleet off Appalachicola, while Christy was sent in a tender to the
Bellevite, then on duty off the entrance to Mobile Bay.

At this point it became necessary for Christy and Mr. Gilfleur to
separate, for the latter was to proceed to New York by a store-ship
about to sail. The detective insisted upon hugging him again, and the
young officer submitted with better grace than usual to such
demonstrations. He had become much attached to his companion in the late
enterprises in which they had been engaged, and he respected him very
highly for his honesty and earnestness, and admired his skill in his
profession. On the voyage from Key West, Christy had written letters to
all the members of his family, as well as to Bertha Pembroke, which he
committed to the care of Mr. Gilfleur when they parted, not to meet
again till the end of the war.

When Christy went on board of the Bellevite he was warmly welcomed by
Captain Breaker, who happened to be on deck. Mr. Blowitt was the next to
grasp his hand, and before he had done with him, Paul Vapoor, the chief
engineer, the young lieutenant's particular crony, hugged him as though
he were a brother.

Most of the old officers were still in the ship, and Christy found
himself entirely at home where-ever he went on board. He was duly
presented to Mr. Walbrook, the third lieutenant, the acting second
lieutenant having returned to the flag-ship in the tender.

For all the rest of the year the Bellevite remained on duty as a
blockader off Fort Morgan. It was an idle life for the most part, and
Christy began to regret that he had caused himself to be transferred
from the command of the Bronx. The steamer occasionally had an
opportunity to chase a blockade-runner, going in or coming out of the
bay. She was the fastest vessel on the station, and she never failed to
give a good account of herself.

Late in the year the Bellevite and Bronx were ordered to operate at
Tampa Bay, where it was believed that several vessels were loading with
cotton. On the arrival of the ships off the bay, a boat expedition was
organized to ascertain what vessels were in the vicinity. But the
entrance was protected by a battery, and it was supposed that there were
field-works in several places on the shores. One of these was discovered
just inside of Palm Key, and the Bellevite opened upon it with her big
midship gun. Two or three such massive balls were enough for the
garrison, and they beat a precipitate retreat, abandoning their pieces.
There was water enough to permit the steamer to go into the bay nearly
to the town at the head of it.

No other batteries were to be seen, and the Bronx proceeded up the bay,
followed by the Bellevite. When the latter had proceeded as far as the
depth of water rendered it prudent for her to go at that time of tide,
the Bronx went ahead some ten miles farther. The boat expedition,
consisting of three cutters from the Bellevite and one from the Bronx,
moved towards the head of the bay. Christy, in the second cutter of the
Bellevite, was at least two miles from any other boat, when a punt
containing a negro put out from the shore near him.

"Are you a frien' ob de colored man?" demanded the negro as soon as he
came within speaking-distance of the cutter.

"Within reasonable limits, I am the friend of the colored man," replied
Christy, amused at the form of the question.

"What you gwine to do up dis bay, massa?" asked the colored man.

"That will depend upon what we find up this bay."

"You don't 'spect you find no steamers up dis bay, does you, massa?"

"Do you know of any steamers up this bay, my man?" asked Christy. "Do
you know of any vessels up here loading with cotton?" asked Christy.

"P'raps I do, massa; and den, again, p'raps I don't know anyt'ing about
any vessels," replied the negro, very indefinitely.

Christy was provoked at the manner in which the negro replied to his
questions. Ordering his boat's crew to give way with all their might,
he directed the cockswain to run for the punt of the negro. The cutter
struck it on the broadside, and broke it into two pieces. The boatman
was fished up, and hauled on board of the boat.

  [Illustration:
  "The boatman was fished up and hauled on board the boat." Page 301.]




CHAPTER XXVII

AMONG THE KEYS OF TAMPA


Christy Passford did not intend to cut the negro's punt into two pieces,
though perhaps there was some mischief in the purpose of the cockswain.
The boatman gave him an evasive answer to his question, which provoked
the young officer. The punt was a very old affair, reduced almost to
punk by the decay of the boards of which it was built, or the bow of the
cutter would not have gone through it so readily. The lieutenant had
simply desired to get alongside the negro's shaky craft in order to
question him, for he was satisfied from the fellow's manner that he knew
more than he pretended to know.

The boatman had come off from the shore of his own accord; he had not
been solicited to give any information, and his movements had been
entirely voluntary on his own part. Yet Christy was sorry that his punt
had been stove, valueless as the craft had been; for, as a rule, the
colored people were friendly to the Union soldiers, and he was not
disposed to do them any injury.

As soon as the officer in charge of the boat saw that the bow was likely
to strike the punt, he directed the cockswain to stop and back her,
which was done, but too late to save the flimsy box from destruction.
The two bowmen drew in the negro without any difficulty; and so
expeditiously had he been rescued that he was not wet above the hips.
He had been caught up just as the bow of the cutter cut into the punt.

"That was well done, bowmen," said Christy, as the boatman was placed
upon his feet in the fore sheets.

The negro was rather small in stature, and black enough to save all
doubts in regard to his parentage; but there was an expression of
cunning in his face not often noticed in persons of his race. The
coast of Florida, south of the entrance to Tampa Bay, as in many other
portions, is fringed with keys, or cays as they are called in the West
Indies, which are small islands, though many of them are ten miles in
length. This fringe of keys extended up Tampa Bay for over twenty
miles; and it was from behind one of them that the punt had put out
when Christy's boat approached. The negro had been obliged to paddle
at least half a mile to come within speaking-distance of the cutter.

"You done broke my boat in two pieces!" exclaimed the boatman, gazing at
the two parts of the floating wreck. "Don't t'ink you is a frien' ob de
colored man widin no limits at all, or you don't smash his boat like
dat."

"That was an accident, my friend," replied Christy. "How much was the
punt worth?"

"Dat boat wan't no punk, massa, and it was wuf two dollars in good
money," replied the colored man, his eyes brightening, and his
expression of cunning becoming more intense, when he realized the
possibility of being paid for his loss.

"If you give me the information I desire, I will pay for the boat,"
added Christy, who proposed to do so out of his own pocket, for his
father was a millionaire of several degrees, and the son had very nearly
made a fortune out of the prizes, from which he had received an
officer's share.

"Tank you, massa; I'm a poor man, and I git my livin' gwine fishin' in
dat boat you done stove."

"What is your name, my man?"

"Quimp, sar; and dat's de short for Quimple," replied the colored person
of this name.

"Where do you live?"

"Ober on de shor dar, in de woods."

"How deep is the water inside of these keys, Quimp?" asked Christy,
pointing to the long, narrow islands which lined the south-easterly side
of the bay.

"Not much water inside dem keys dar, sar," replied the boatman, looking
off in the other direction.

"But there are deep places in there, I am very sure."

"Yes, sar; ten feet in some places," replied Quimp, suddenly becoming
more communicative. "When de wind blow from de west or de norf-west,
dar's twelve foot inside de long key."

"Do you know of any vessels, any schooners, or steamers, inside the bay,
Quimp?" asked Christy, pushing his inquiries a point farther.

"Couldn't told you, massa," replied the boatman, shaking his head.

"Do you mean that you don't know, my man?"

"Dis nigger done got but one head, and it's wuf more to him dan it is to
any oder feller, massa; and it don't do for him to tell no stories about
vessels and steamers," replied Quimp, shaking his head more vigorously.

"I suppose you have a family, Quimp?"

"No, sar; done got no family. De ole woman done gone to glory more'n ten
years ago, and de boys done growed up and gone off. No, sar; dis nigger
got no family."

"Then you don't care to stay here, where you have to work hard for
little money?" suggested Christy.

"Money! Don't see no money. Nobody but white folks got any money; and
dey has next to noffin in dese times."

"I will pay you well for any information that may be of importance to
me, and I will take you on board of a man-of-war farther down the bay,
if you are afraid of losing your head."

"If dis nigger told some stories he lose his head for sartin," added
Quimp, shaking his head, as if to make sure that it safely rested on his
shoulders.

"If you tell me the truth, you shall be protected."

"Wot you want to know, massa?" demanded Quimp, as though he was
weakening in his resolution.

Christy could not help wondering why the boatman had come out from
behind the key, if he was not willing to impart his knowledge to the
officer of the boat, for he could not help understanding the object of
the gunboats in visiting the bay; and the Bellevite lay not half a mile
below the northern end of what Quimp called the long key.

"I want to know if there are any steamers or other vessels in the bay,"
replied Christy, coming directly to the point. "If there are any, we
shall find them; but you can save us the trouble of looking for them."

"How much you gwine to gib me, massa, if I told you?" asked the negro,
as he walked between the men on the thwarts to the stern sheets, in
order to be nearer to the officer.

"I will give you ten dollars if you will be sure and tell me the truth."

"Dis nigger don't never told no lies, massa," protested Quimp. "If you
pay me five dollars for de boat you done stove, and"--

"But you said the boat was worth only two dollars," interposed the
officer.

"Dat's de gospel truf, massa; but it costs me five dollars to get a new
boat, to say noffin about de time. I mought starve to def afore I can
get a boat."

The negro's argument was logical, and Christy admitted its force, and
expressed his willingness to pay the price demanded.

"Five dollars for de boat, massa, and ten dollars for tellin' de whole
truf," added Quimp.

"All right, my man," added the lieutenant.

"Yes, sar; but I want de money now, sar," said Quimp, extending his hand
to receive it; and Christy thought he was very sharp for one in his
position.

"I will pay you when you have imparted the information," he replied;
and, for some reason he could not explain, he was not satisfied with the
conduct of the negro.

He was altogether too shrewd for one who appeared to be so stupid. The
expression of cunning in his face told against him, and perhaps it was
this more than anything else that prejudiced the officer. He took it for
granted that he should have to take the boatman off to the Bellevite
with him, and that it would be time enough to pay him on board of the
ship.

"Dat won't do, massa!" protested Quimp earnestly. "What you tink?
Suppose dar is a steamer in de bay loaded wid cotton, all ready to quit
for somewhar. Do you tink, massa, I can go on bord of her wid you? No,
sar! Dis nigger lose his head for sartin if dem uns knows I pilot you to
dat steamer. You done got two eyes, massa, and you can see it for
shore."

"But I can protect you, Quimp," suggested Christy.

"No, sar! All de sojers in de Yankee camp could not save me, sar. De
first man dat sees me will knive me in de heart, or cut my froat from
one ear to de oder!" protested Quimp more earnestly than before, though
he manifested no terror in his words or manner.

"Very well, Quimp; I will pay you the money as soon as we see the
steamer or other vessel, and then assist you to make your escape,"
replied Christy. "I will go a step farther, and pay you for the boat
now; but I will not pay you the ten dollars till you show us a vessel."

While the negro was scratching his head to stimulate his ideas, the
officer handed him a gold sovereign and a shilling of English money,
provided for his visit to Bermuda and Nassau, which made a little more
than five dollars.

"I don't reckon a gemman like you would cheat a poor nigger," said
Quimp, while his eyes were still glowing with delight at the sight of
the money in his hand.

"Certainly not, my man," replied Christy, laughing at the idea. "Just as
soon as I get my eye on the steamer of which you speak, I will pay you
the ten dollars in gold and silver."

"I don't know much about dis yere money, massa," said the boatman, still
studying the coin.

"The gold piece is an English sovereign, worth about four dollars and
eighty-five cents; and the silver coin is a shilling, worth very nearly
a quarter of a dollar; so that I have paid you over five dollars."

"Yes, sar, tank you, sar. Cap'n Stopfoot fotched over some ob de money
like dat from Nassau, and I done seen it."

"But I can't stop to talk all day, Quimp," continued Christy
impatiently. "If you are going to do anything to earn your ten dollars,
it is time for you to be about it."

"Yes, sar; I will told you all about it, massa."

"No long yarns, my man!" protested the officer, as Quimp seated himself
in the stern sheets as though he intended to tell a long story.

"Yes, massa; told you all about it in a bref. De wind done blow fresh
from de norf-west for t'ree days; dat's what Massa Cap'n Stopfoot say,"
Quimp began.

"No matter what Captain Stopfoot says!" Christy interposed. "Tell me
where the steamer is, if there is any steamer in the bay. We will stop
the foot and the mouth of Captain Stopfoot when we come to him."

"Well, sar, if you don't want to har dis nigger's yarn, he'll shet up
all to onct," replied Quimp, standing on his dignity.

"Go on, then; but make it short," added Christy, finding it would take
less time to get what he wanted out of the negro by letting him have his
own way. "Wind fresh from the north-west for three days."

"Yes, sar; and dat pile up de water so de tide rise six or eight inches
higher," continued Quimp, picking up the clew given him. "High tide in
one hour from now, and de Reindeer was gwine out den for shore. Dat's de
whole story, massa, and not bery long."

"All right, Quimp. Now where is the Reindeer?"

"Ober de oder side ob long key, massa. Dar's more'n four fadoms ob water
under dis boat now, and twelve feet 'tween de two keys," added the
boatman, whose tongue was fully unlocked by this time.

The crew of the cutter were directed to give way, and the negro pointed
out the channel which led inside the keys.




CHAPTER XXVIII

THE SURRENDER OF THE REINDEER


Christy looked over the side of the boat, and saw that the water was
quite clear. The channel, which lay in the middle of the bay, had four
and a quarter fathoms of water at mean low tide, according to the chart
the officer had with him. He had brought several copies of the large
chart with him from New York, and he had cut them up into convenient
squares, so that they could be easily handled when he was on boat
service. But his authority gave no depth of water on the shoal sands.

In a short time the boat came to the verge of the channel, and Christy
directed the bowman to stand by with the lead, with which the boat was
provided. The first heaving gave three and a half fathoms, and it
gradually decreased at each report, till only two fathoms and a quarter
was indicated, when the boat was between the two keys, the southern of
which Quimp called the long key, simply because that was the longest in
the bay, and not because it was a proper name.

"Now, Massa Ossifer, look sharp ober on de starboard side," said the
negro.

"I don't see anything," replied Christy.

"No, sar, not yet; but look ober dat way, and you see somet'ing fo' yore
t'ree minutes older, massa."

Christy fixed his gaze on the point of the long key, beyond which Quimp
intimated that the steamer would be seen.

"Now, Massa Ossifer, fo' yore two minutes nearer glory, you'll see de
end ob de bowsprit ob de Reindeer," added Quimp, who was beginning to be
somewhat excited, possibly in expectation of receiving his ten dollars;
and perhaps he was regretting that he had not demanded twenty.

"How big is that steamer, Quimp?" asked the officer of the cutter.

"Fo' hund'ed tons, massa; dat's what Cap'n Stopfoot done say, kase I
never done measure her. He done say she is very flat on her bottom, and
don't draw much water for her size," replied the negro. "Dar's de end ob
de bowsprit, massa!" he exclaimed at this moment.

"Way enough, cockswain!" said Christy sharply. "Stern all!"

The headway of the cutter was promptly checked, and she was set back a
couple of lengths, when the order was given to the crew to lay on their
oars.

"W'at's the matter, Massa Ossifer? Arn't you gwine no furder?" asked
Quimp.

"I have seen enough of the Reindeer to satisfy me that she is there; and
I have stopped the boat to give you a chance to make your escape,"
replied Christy. "I don't want you to lose your head for the service you
have rendered to me."

"Dis nigger can't get away from here, massa," replied the boatman,
looking about him. "A feller can't swim a mile when de water's full ob
alligators. Dem varmints like niggers to eat jus' as well as dey do
white men."

Christy had his doubts about there being alligators of a dangerous size
in the bay, though he had seen small ones in other bays of the coast;
but he was willing to admit that Quimp knew better about the matter than
he did. It was a hard swim to any other key than the long one, to which
the cutter was quite near. He could land the negro on that key, but he
would reveal the presence of the boat to the people on board of the
Reindeer, and they would burn her rather than have her fall into the
hands of the Union navy.

"I can land you on the long key, Quimp," suggested the officer.

"No, sar! Can't go there; for Cap'n Stopfoot sartainly cotch me dar,"
protested the negro.

"I don't think so, Quimp."

"De ossifers and men ob de Reindeer will go asho' when you done took de
steamer; don't you see dat, massa?"

"What shall I do with you then?" asked Christy, as he handed him two
sovereigns and two shillings.

"T'ank you, sar; dat's a pile ob money!" exclaimed Quimp, as he looked
with admiration upon the coins.

"It is what I agreed to give you. But what shall I do with you now? That
is the question I want answered," continued the officer impatiently.

"You can't do not'ing wid me, Massa Ossifer, and I must tooken my chance
to go up in de boat. Better hab my froat cut 'n be chawed up by a big
alligator. Was you ever bit by an alligator, Massa Ossifer?"

"I never was."

"I knows about dat, massa," added Quimp, as he bared his leg, and showed
an ugly scar.

Christy would not wait to hear any more, but ordered the cockswain to go
ahead again. It looked to him that Quimp, now that he had received his
money, and made fifteen dollars out of his morning's work, was
intentionally delaying the object of the expedition, for what reason he
could form no clear idea.

"I spose, if Captain Stopfoot kill me for w'at I done do, you'll bury me
side de old woman dat done gone to glory ten year ago?" continued the
negro, who did not look old enough to have buried a wife ten years
before.

"I am not in the burying business, my friend, and after you are dead,
you had better send for your sons to do the job, for they will know
where to find the grave of the departed companion of your joys and
sorrows," replied Christy, as the boat came in sight of the bowsprit of
the Reindeer again.

"My sons done gone away to Alabamy, sar, and"--

"That's enough about that. There are no alligators about here, and you
can swim ashore if you are so disposed; but you must shut up your wide
mouth and keep still if you stay in the boat. Heave the lead, bowman!"

"Mark under water two, sir," reported the leadsman.

In a few moments more the cutter had gained a position where the steamer
could be fully seen. She was a side-wheeler, and appeared to be a very
handsome vessel. She had a considerable deck-load of cotton, and
doubtless her hold was filled with the same valuable commodity.

"Is that steamer armed, Quimp?" asked Christy, who could see no signs of
life on board of her.

"She don't got no arms, but she hab two field-pieces on her for'ad
deck," replied the negro.

"How many men has she on board?"

"L'em me see: the cap'n and de mate is two, two ingineers, two firemen;
dat makes six; and den she hab two deck-hands."

"But that makes only eight in all," replied Christy. "Are you sure that
is all?"

"Dead shoar dat's all, Massa Ossifer."

"But that is not enough to handle the steamer on a voyage to a foreign
port, for I dare say she is going to Nassau," added Christy, who was on
the lookout for some piece of strategy by which his boat and its crew
might be destroyed.

"I don't know not'ing about dat, sar; but Cap'n Stopfoot is a pow'ful
smart man; and he's Yankee too. I done hear him say he gwine to j'in de
Yankee navy."

What Quimp said was rather suspicious; but Christy could see nothing to
justify his doubts. He directed the cockswain to steer the cutter as
closely to the side of the Reindeer as the movement of the oars would
permit, so that the field-pieces could not be brought to bear upon it.
The steamer lay at a sort of temporary pier, which had evidently been
erected for her accommodation, and the cotton had doubtless been brought
to the key by river steamers by the Suwanee and other streams from
cotton regions.

There was no habitation or other building on the shore, but a gangway
was stretched to the land, over which a couple of men were hastening on
board when the cutter reached the stern of the Reindeer. From
appearances Christy judged that the water had been deepened by dredges,
for a considerable quantity of sand and mud was disposed in heaps in the
shallow water a hundred feet or more from the rude wharf.

"Boat ahoy!" shouted a person on board, near the starboard accommodation
ladder, which the officer of the boat had noticed was in place.

"On board the steamer!" replied Christy.

"What is your business here?" inquired the person on the deck of the
Reindeer, though he could not be seen from the cutter.

"I will go on board and inform you," replied Christy.

As there were no signs of resistance on board of the vessel, the officer
of the cutter directed his men to make a dash for the accommodation
ladder, which had the appearance of having been left to make things
convenient for a boarding-party. The crew were all armed with a cutlass
and revolver in the belt.

"Lay her aboard!" said Christy, quietly enough, as he led the way
himself, for he was a bold leader, and was not content to follow his
men. As he leaped down from the bulwarks to the deck, he confronted the
person who had hailed him in the boat.

"What is your business on board of the Reindeer?" demanded, in a very
tame tone, the man in front of him.

"I am an officer of the United States navy, and my business is to make a
prize of this steamer and her cargo," replied Christy.

"Is that so? You did not give me your name, sir," added the man.

"Lieutenant Passford, attached to the United States steamer Bellevite.
Do me the favor to explain who you are, sir," returned Christy.

"I am Captain Solomon Stopfoot, in command of the Reindeer, at your
service, born and brought up on Long Island," answered the commander of
the steamer.

"Then what are you doing here?" demanded the naval officer. "Where were
you born on Long Island?"

"In Babylon, on the south shore."

"Then Babylon is fallen!" exclaimed Christy, indignant to find a man
born so near his own home doing the dirty work of the Confederate
government.

"Perhaps not; and perhaps you may change your view of me when you have
heard my story," added Captain Stopfoot.

"Well, Captain, there is only one story that I care to hear just now,
and its title is simply 'Surrender,'" replied Christy rather
impatiently. "You understand my business on board of the Reindeer; and
if you propose to make any resistance, it is time for you to begin."

"It would be folly for me to make any resistance, and I shall not make
any. I have only two engineers, two firemen, foreigners, hired in
Nassau, who would not fight if I wished them to do so, and two
deck-hands. I could do nothing against the eight well-armed men you have
brought on board. I surrender."

"I should say that was a wise step on your part, Captain Stopfoot,"
replied Christy. "When you are more at leisure, I hope you will indulge
me in an explanation of the manner in which a Long Islander happens to
be engaged in blockade-running."

"I am an American citizen now, as I have always been; I shall be only
too happy to get back under the old flag. As an evidence of my
sincerity, I will assist you in getting the Reindeer out of this place.
The tide is high at this moment; and half an hour from now it will be
too late to move the vessel," said Captain Stopfoot, with every
appearance of sincerity in his manner.

"I will see you, Captain, as soon as I have looked the steamer over,"
replied Christy, as he left the commander of the Reindeer at the door of
his cabin, and went forward to examine the vessel.

He found the steam up; and the engineer bowed to him as he looked into
his room. There was nothing to be seen but cotton, piled high on the
deck, and stuffed into the hold; and he returned to the cabin.




CHAPTER XXIX

BRINGING OUT THE PRIZE


It seemed to Christy, after he had completed his examination of the
Reindeer, that she carried an enormous deck-load for a steamer of her
size, and that the bales were piled altogether too high for a vessel
that was liable to encounter a heavy sea. But the cotton was where it
could be readily thrown overboard if the safety of the steamer was
threatened by its presence. He found only the six men mentioned by
Stopfoot, though he had looked in every part of the vessel, even to the
fire-room and the quarters of the crew and firemen.

"I find everything as you stated, Captain Stopfoot; but I should say
that you were proposing to go to sea short-handed. I did not even see a
person whom I took for the mate. Is it possible that you could get along
without one?" said Christy, when he met the commander at the door of the
cabin.

"The truth is, that my men deserted me when they saw the two men-of-war
come into the bay, for they knew I had no adequate means of making a
defence. In fact, the Reindeer was as good as captured as soon as your
two steamers came into the bay, for you were morally sure to find her,"
replied the captain.

"But where are your men? How could they get away?" asked Christy.

"They have not got away a great distance. You could see the gangway to
the shore; and all they had to do was to land, without even the trouble
of taking to a boat. They are all on the long key; and without some sort
of a craft they will not be able to leave it. If you desire to spend
your time in hunting them down, I have no doubt you could find them
all."

"How many of them are there on the island, Captain Stopfoot?"

"The mate, four deck-hands, and two firemen. It would not be a difficult
task for you to capture them all, for I did not look upon them as
fighting material; they have crowded about all the men of that sort into
the army."

"I have no desire to find them, and they may stay on the key till
doomsday, so far as I am concerned," replied Christy. "We don't regard
the men employed on blockade-runners as of much account. But it is time
to get under way, Captain; I have men enough to do all the work, and I
think I have learned the channel well enough to find the way out into
the deep water of the bay."

"As I said before, Lieutenant Passford, I am willing to assist you, for
I am anxious to get back among my own people, and to find a position in
the old navy. I have been master of a vessel for the last ten years, and
I know the Southern coast better than most of your officers."

"No doubt you will find a place when you want one, for all competent men
are taken," replied Christy, as he went to the quarter to see if the
Bellevite's cutter was in condition to be towed by the Reindeer.

He had left the boat in charge of Quimp, or rather he had left him in it
without assigning any particular duty to him. He was no longer in the
cutter, and the officer concluded that he had taken to the long key, and
was fraternizing with the renegades who had deserted the Reindeer. The
long painter of the boat was taken to the stern and made fast in a
suitable place, and Christy hastened to the forward part of the vessel
with six of his men, leaving a quartermaster, who was the cockswain of
the cutter, with two others, in charge of the after part.

On his way he went into the engine-room, which opened from the main
deck, where he had before seen the two engineers, the chief of whom had
received him very politely. He suggested to the captain that he had made
no arrangement with these officers, and he was not quite sure that they
would be willing to do duty now that the steamer was a prize.

"There will be no trouble about them, for they are Englishmen, engaged
at Nassau, and they will do duty as long as they are paid for it, as
they have no interest in the quarrel between the North and the South,"
said Captain Stopfoot; and Christy could not help seeing that he was
making everything very comfortable for him.

"We are willing to work for whoever will pay us," added the chief
engineer, "and without asking any hard questions."

"I will see that you are paid," returned Christy. "You will attend to
the bells as usual, will you?"

"Yes, sir; we will do our duty faithfully," answered the chief.

Christy and the captain proceeded to the pilot-house, which appeared to
have been recently added to the vessel to suit the taste of her American
owners. The naval officer stationed one of his own men at the wheel, and
then took a careful survey of the position of the steamer. He directed
his crew to cast off the fasts.

"Is there a United States flag on board of this craft, Captain
Stopfoot?" asked Christy.

"To be sure there is, Lieutenant," said the captain with a laugh; "but I
do not get much chance to get under its folds."

"Of course you have Confederate flags in abundance?"

"Enough of them," replied the commander, as he drew forth from a
signal-box the flags required. "What do you intend to do with these?"

"I intend to hoist the United States flag over the Confederate to show
that this steamer is a prize, otherwise the Bellevite might put a shot
through her as soon as she shows herself outside of the key," replied
Christy.

"A wise precaution," added Captain Stopfoot.

The naval officer rang one bell as one of his men reported to him that
the fasts had been cast off, and that all was clear. The grating sound
of the engine was immediately heard, with the splash of the paddle
wheels. Very slowly the Reindeer began to move forward. Christy had very
carefully noted the bearings of the channel by which the steamer must
pass out into the deep water of the bay, and the instructions which the
captain volunteered to give him were not necessary.

"I suppose I am as really a Northern man in principle as you are, Mr.
Passford," said the captain, as the steamer crept very cautiously
through the pass between the keys.

"If you are, you have taken a different way to show it," replied
Christy, glancing at the speaker.

"But the circumstances have compelled me to remain in the service of my
Southern employer until the present time, and this promises to be the
first favorable opportunity to escape from it that has been presented to
me," Captain Stopfoot explained.

"You have been to Nassau a number of times, I judge; and it was possible
for you to abandon your employment any time you pleased," suggested the
naval officer.

"It was not so easy a matter as you seem to think; for there were no
Northern vessels there in which I could take passage to New York, or any
other loyal port.

"Mr. Groomer, the mate of the Reindeer, is part owner of her, though he
is not competent to navigate a vessel at sea, and he kept close watch of
me all the time, on shore as well as on board."

"But I understand that Mr. Groomer, the mate, has deserted you, and gone
on shore with the others of your ship's company," added Christy, rather
perplexed at the situation indicated by the captain.

"What else could he do?"

"What else could you do? and why did you not abandon the steamer when he
did so? If one of the owners would not stand by the vessel, why did you
do so?"

"I have told you before why I did not: because I wish to get back to my
friends in the North, and find a place in the old navy, which would be
more congenial to me than selling cotton for the benefit of the
Confederacy," replied Captain Stopfoot with considerable energy.

The explanation seemed to be a reasonable one, and Christy could not
gainsay it, though he was not entirely satisfied with the declarations
of the commander. He admitted that he regarded the Reindeer as good as
captured when he saw the Bellevite and Bronx come into the bay; and he
could easily have escaped in a boat to one of the gunboats after the
watchful mate "took to the woods," as he had literally done, for the key
was partly covered with small trees.

"And a quarter two!" reported the leadsman who had been stationed on the
forecastle.

"The water don't seem to vary here," added Christy.

"No, for the owners had done some dredging in this channel; in fact,
there was hardly anything like a channel here when they began the work,"
replied Captain Stopfoot. "To which of the steamers do you belong, Mr.
Passford?"

"To the Bellevite, the one which lies below the long key. The other has
gone up the bay."

"She has gone on a fruitless errand, for there is not another vessel
loading in these waters," said the captain. "I suppose you will report
on board of the Bellevite, Mr. Passford?"

"Of course I shall not leave the Reindeer without an order from the
commander of the ship," replied the lieutenant.

"And a half two!" shouted the leadsman.

"The channel deepens," said Christy.

"You will be in deep water in five minutes."

On this report Christy rang four bells, and the Reindeer went ahead at
full speed.

"By the mark three!" called the man at the lead.

The water was deepening rapidly, and presently the report of three and a
half fathoms came from the forecastle. It was soon followed by "And a
half four," upon which the lieutenant directed the wheelman to steer
directly for the Bellevite. He had hardly given the order before the
report of heavy firing from the upper waters of the bay came to his ear.

"What can that be?" he asked, looking at Captain Stopfoot.

"I don't know; but I suppose that the gunboat which went up the bay is
firing at some battery she has discovered. They have strengthened the
works in that direction which defend the town, since the only one there
was silenced by one of your gunboats," the captain explained.

The guns were heard on board of the Bellevite, and she began to move up
the bay as though she intended to proceed to the assistance of her
consort. Mr. Blowitt in the first cutter had followed the Bronx, and the
third cutter, in charge of Mr. Lobscott, had gone over to Piney Point,
to which there was a channel with from three to five fathoms of water,
and which seemed to be a favorable place to load a vessel with cotton.

As the Reindeer approached the Bellevite, the latter stopped her screw,
and Christy directed the wheelman to run the steamer alongside, and
within twenty or thirty feet of her. There was no sea in the bay, and
there was no danger in doing so. As the Reindeer approached the position
indicated, two bells were struck to stop her. The flags that had been
hoisted on board, informed Captain Breaker of the capture of the
steamer, so that no report was necessary.

"I have to report the capture of the Reindeer, loaded with cotton, and
ready to sail for Nassau," said Christy, mounting one of the high piles
of cotton bales, and saluting the commander of the Bellevite, who had
taken his place on the rail to see the prize.

"Do you know the cause of the firing up the bay, Mr. Passford?" asked
Captain Breaker.

"I do not, Captain; but I learn that the battery below the town has been
strengthened, and I should judge that the Bronx had engaged it."

"Have you men enough to hold your prize, Mr. Passford?"

"I think I have, Captain."

"You will go down the bay, and anchor outside of Egmont Key."

Christy rang one bell, and then four.




CHAPTER XXX

A VERY IMPORTANT SERVICE


The Reindeer went ahead at full speed, while the Bellevite stood up the
bay, picking up the crew of Mr. Blowitt's boat on the way, evidently
with the intention of taking part in the action which the Bronx had
initiated. The loud reports at intervals indicated that the Bronx was
using her big midship gun, while the feebler sounds proved that the
metal of the battery was much lighter. The prize was not a fast steamer,
and she was over an hour in making the dozen miles to Egmont Island, on
which was the tower of a lighthouse forty feet high, but no use was made
of it at that time.

The Bellevite proceeded very slowly, sounding all the time; but at the
end of half an hour the Reindeer was at least ten miles from her, which
was practically out of sight and hearing. About this time Christy
observed that Captain Stopfoot left the pilot-house, where he had
remained from the first; but he paid no attention to him. He had three
men on the quarter-deck of the steamer, one in the pilot-house with him,
and five more in other parts of the vessel.

Christy knew the channel to the south of the lighthouse, and piloted
the steamer to a point about half a mile to the westward of the island.
He was looking through one of the forward windows of the pilot-house,
selecting a proper place to come to anchor, in accordance with the
orders of Captain Breaker. While he was so engaged he heard some sort of
a disturbance in the after part of the steamer.

"On deck there!" he called sharply; and the five men who had been
stationed in this part of the steamer stood up before him, jumping up
from the beds they had made for themselves on the cotton bales, or
rushing out from behind them. "Hopkins and White, go aft and ascertain
the cause of that disturbance," he added.

The two men promptly obeyed the order, and the naval officer directed
the other three to stand by to anchor the steamer. In a few minutes the
anchor was ready to let go. Perhaps a quarter of an hour had elapsed,
when Christy began to wonder what had become of the two men he had sent
aft to report on the disturbance.

"Linman," he called to one of the three men on the forecastle, "go aft
and see what has become of Hopkins and White."

Linman proceeded to obey the order, but had not been gone twenty
seconds, before the noise of another disturbance came to Christy's ears,
and this time it sounded very much like a scuffle. Up to this moment,
and even since Captain Stopfoot had left the pilot-house, Christy had
not suspected that anything on board was wrong. The sounds that came
from the after part of the vessel excited his suspicions, though they
did not assure him that the ship's company of the steamer were engaged
in anything like a revolt.

"Follow me, Bench and Kingman!" he shouted to the two men that remained
on the forecastle. "Strike two bells, Landers," he added to the
wheelman.

Christy had drawn the cutlass he carried in his belt, and was ready,
with the assistance of the two men he had called, to put down any
insubordination that might have been manifested by the ship's company of
the prize. He would have been willing to admit, if he had given the
matter any attention at that moment, that it was the natural right of
the captured captain and his men to regain possession of their persons
and property by force and violence; but he was determined to make it
dangerous for them to do so.

"On the forecastle, sir!" exclaimed Landers, the wheelman.

Christy had put his hand upon the door of the pilot-house to open it as
the two men were moving aft; but he looked out the window at the
exclamation of the wheelman. The cotton bales seemed to have become
alive all at once, for half a dozen of them rolled over like a spaniel
just out of the water, and four men leaped out from under them, or from
apertures which had been formed beneath them.

  [Illustration:
  "His assailant put his arms around him and hugged him like a bear."
  Page 339.]

Bench and Kingman seemed to be bewildered, and both of them were thrown
down by the movement of the bales. The four men who had so suddenly
appeared sprang upon them, and almost in the twinkling of an eye had
tied their hands behind them. Christy drew one of the revolvers from his
belt; but he did not fire, for he was as likely to hit his own men as
their assailants. The victors in the struggle dragged the two men into
the forecastle, and disappeared themselves.

Christy was almost confounded by the suddenness of the attack; but he
did not give up the battle, for he had at least six men in the after
part of the steamer. Bidding Landers draw his cutlass and follow him, he
rushed out at the door he had before opened. He could not see anything
aft but the walls of cotton bales, with a narrow passage between them
and the bulwarks. He moved aft with his eyes wide open; but he had not
gone ten feet before a man dropped down upon him from the top of the
deck-load with so much force as to carry him down to the planks.

His assailant put his arms around him and hugged him like a bear, so
that he could neither use his cutlass nor his revolvers. At the same
moment another man dropped down on Landers in like manner. It was
impossible to resist an attack made from overhead, where it was least
expected, and when they were taken by surprise. Christy was a prisoner,
and his hands were bound behind him.

At this moment Captain Stopfoot presented himself before the
prize-master, his face covered with smiles, and nervous from the excess
of his joy at the recapture of the Reindeer. Christy could not see what
had become of the rest of his men. He knew that three of them had been
secured, but he did not know what had become of the other six, and he
had some hope that they had escaped their assailants, and were in
condition to render him needed assistance, for it seemed impossible that
all of them could have been overcome.

In spite of his chagrin and mortification, Christy could not help seeing
that the affair on the part of Captain Stopfoot had been well managed,
and that the author of the plot was smart enough to be a Yankee, whether
he was one or not. It was evident enough now that the mate and the rest
of the crew had not "taken to the woods," but had been concealed in such
dens as could be easily made among the cotton bales.

"I hope you are not very uncomfortable, Mr. Passford," said Captain
Stopfoot, as he presented his smiling face before his late captor.

"Physically, I am not very uncomfortable, in spite of these bonds; but
otherwise, I must say that I am. I am willing to acknowledge that it is
a bad scrape for me," replied Christy as good-naturedly as possible, for
his pride would not allow him to let the enemy triumph over him.

"That would not be at all unnatural, and I think it is a very bad scrape
for a naval officer of your high reputation to get into," added the
captain. "But I desire to say, Mr. Passford, that I have no ill-will
towards you, and it will not be convenient for me to send you to a
Confederate prison, important as such a service would be to our cause."

"I judge that you are not as anxious as you were to get into the old
navy," added Christy.

"I confess that I am not, and that I should very much prefer to obtain a
good position in the Confederate navy. I hope you will excuse the little
fictions in which I indulged for your amusement. I was born in the very
heart of the State of Alabama, and never saw Long Island in all my
life," continued the captain. "By the way, my mate is not part owner of
the Reindeer, though he is just as faithful to her interests as though
he owned the whole of her; and it was he that pounced down upon you at
the right moment. I assure you he is a very good fellow, and I hope you
will not have any grudge against him."

"Not the least in the world, Captain Stopfoot," replied Christy.

"I hope I shall not be obliged to detain you long, Mr. Passford; and I
shall not unless one of your gunboats chases me. I shall endeavor to put
you and your men on shore at the Gasparilla Pass, where you can hail one
of the gunboats as it comes along in pursuit of the Reindeer, though I
hope they will not sail for this purpose before night."

"The Bellevite is not likely to discover the absence of the prize at
present, for she will have to remain up the bay over one tide," said the
mate.

"That is what I was calculating upon," added the captain. "Now, Mr.
Passford, I shall be compelled to take my leave of you, for we have to
stow the cotton over again before we go to sea. I am exceedingly obliged
to you for the very valuable service you have rendered me."

"I was not aware that I had rendered you any service," replied Christy,
wondering what he could mean.

"You are not? Then your perception is not as clear as I supposed it was.
When it was reported to me that two gunboats were coming into the bay I
considered the Reindeer as good as captured, as I have hinted to you
before. My cargo will bring a fortune in Nassau, and I am half owner of
the steamer and her cargo, if Mr. Groomer, the mate, is not. I was
almost in despair, for I could not afford to lose my vessel and her
valuable cargo. I considered myself utterly ruined. But just then I got
an idea, and I came to a prompt decision;" and the captain paused.

"And what was that decision?" asked Christy curiously.

"When I saw your boat coming, for I was on the long key, I determined
that you should bring the Reindeer out into the Gulf, and save me all
trouble and anxiety in regard to her, and I knew that you could do it a
great deal better than I could. Wherefore I am extremely grateful to you
for this very important service," said Captain Stopfoot, bowing very
politely. "But I am compelled to leave you now to your own pleasant
reflections. Mr. Passford, I shall ask you and your men to take
possession of the cabin, and not show yourselves on deck; and you will
pardon me if I lock the door upon you."

The captive officer followed the captain aft to the door of the cabin.
On a bale of cotton he saw the cutlasses and revolvers which had been
taken from him and his men, which had apparently been thrown in a heap
where they happened to hit, and had been forgotten. Seated on the cotton
he found all his men, with their hands tied behind them. Captain
Stopfoot opened the cabin door, and directed his prisoners to enter.

"Excuse me for leaving you so abruptly, Mr. Passford," continued the
captain while he was feeling in his pocket for the key of the door. "It
looks as though it were going to blow before night, and I must get ready
for it. Besides, the Bellevite may return on the present tide, and I am
informed that she is a very fast sailer, as the Reindeer is not, and I
must make the most of my opportunity; but when my fortune is made out of
my present cargo, I shall owe it largely to you. Adieu for the present."

Captain Stopfoot left the cabin, locking the door behind him. The hands
of the prisoners, ten in number, were tied behind them with ropes, for
probably the steamer was not provided with handcuffs. Christy examined
his men in regard to the manner in which they had been overcome. The
three men who had been left near the cabin door had been overthrown by
those who jumped down upon them when they were separated, one at the
stern, one on the bales, watching the Bellevite in the distance, and the
third asleep on a cotton bale. The lieutenant had seen the rest of the
enterprise.

"This thing is not going to last long, my men," said Christy, who
realized that he should never be able to stand up under the obloquy of
having brought out a blockade-runner for the enemy.

He caused the hands to march in front of him till he found one who had
been carelessly bound. He backed this one up in the rear of Calwood, the
quartermaster, and made him untie the line, which he could do with his
fingers, though his wrists were bound. It was not the work of three
minutes to unbind the rest of them.

Christy broke a pane of glass in the door, and unlocked it with the key
the captain had left in the keyhole.




CHAPTER XXXI

AN UNDESIRED PROMOTION


As Christy unlocked the cabin door, he discovered a negro lying on the
deck, as close as he could get to the threshold. The man attempted to
spring to his feet, but the officer seized him by the hair of the head,
and pulled him into the cabin.

"Here, Calwood, put your hand over this fellow's mouth!" said Christy to
the quartermaster, who laid violent hands on him, assisted by Norlock.

The latter produced a handkerchief, which he thrust into the mouth of
the negro, so that he could not give the alarm. All the men were alert
and eager to wipe out the shame, as they regarded it, of the disaster;
and those who had been stationed near the cabin had certainly been
wanting in vigilance. Two of them seized a couple of the lines with
which they had been bound, and tied the arms of the negro behind him.

A second look at the negro assured Christy that it was Quimp, and he was
more mortified than before at the trick which had been played upon him.
Thrusting his hand into the pocket of the fellow, he drew from it the
three sovereigns and the three shillings he had paid him for his boat
and his information. It was evident enough now that he belonged to the
Reindeer, and that he had been sent out by Captain Stopfoot to do
precisely what he had done, taking advantage of the general good feeling
which prevailed between the negroes and the Union forces.

Christy thought that Captain Stopfoot had been over-confident to leave
his prisoners without a guard; but it appeared now that Quimp had been
employed in this capacity, though it was probable that he had been
instructed not to show himself to them, and for that reason had crept to
his station and lain down on the deck.

"Now, my men, take your arms from that bale of cotton; but don't make
any noise," said Christy in a low tone, as he took his revolvers and
cutlass from the heap of weapons; and the seamen promptly obeyed the
order. "The captain of this steamer managed his affair very well indeed,
and I intend to adopt his tactics."

The steamer was under way, and had been for some time. Christy climbed
upon the bales of cotton far enough to see what the crew of the vessel
were doing. The hatches appeared to have been taken off in the waist and
forward, and the crew were lowering cargo into the hold. A portion of
the cotton had either been hoisted out of the hold, or had been left on
deck, to form the hiding-places for the men. The captain must have had
early notice of the approach of the Bellevite and Bronx; but there had
been time enough after the former began to fire at the battery to enable
him to make all his preparations.

Captain Stopfoot was not to be seen, and was probably in the
pilot-house. The officer concluded that there must be as many as four
men in the hold attending to the stowage of the bales, and four more
could be seen tumbling the cargo through the hatches. This accounted for
eight men; and this was the number Christy had figured out as the crew
of the Reindeer, though there was doubtless a man at the wheel. The
force was about equal to his own, not counting the engineers and the
firemen.

Christy stationed his men as he believed Captain Stopfoot had arranged
his force. The cabin was in a deck-house; between the door of it and the
piles of cotton was a vacant space of about six feet fore and aft, which
could not be overlooked from the forward part of the vessel. It was here
that the first movement had been made. Calwood, who had been on duty
here, said that two men had dropped down upon them; and when the third
man came to learn the cause of the disturbance, he had been secured by
two more.

This was the noise that Christy had heard when he sent two hands from
the forecastle to ascertain the occasion of it. The three prisoners had
been disarmed, bound, and concealed in the cabin. They were threatened
with instant death if they made any outcry, and one of their own
revolvers was pointed at them. Linman, who had been sent to learn what
had become of Hopkins and White, was treated in the same manner. Then he
went himself, and the mate had dropped upon him, while those from under
the bales secured Bench and Kingman.

Every sailor was fully instructed in regard to the part he was to have
in the programme, and Christy had crawled forward to the point where he
found the aperture in which Groomer, the mate, had been concealed. He
was followed by Norlock, a very powerful man, who was to "make the drop"
on Captain Stopfoot, and stuff a handkerchief into his mouth before he
could call for assistance. Christy believed that the commander would be
the first one to come aft when the men by the cabin fired their
revolvers, as they had been instructed to do.

Two hands had been placed where they could fall upon the two who were
rolling the cotton into the hold at the hatch in the waist; and two more
were instructed to rush forward and fall upon the two men at work at the
fore-hatch. The four men in the space in front of the cabin were to leap
upon the bales and rush forward, revolvers in hand, and secure those at
work in the hold. If there was any failure of the plan to work as
arranged, the sailors were to rally at the side of their officer, ready
for a stand-up fight.

Christy gave the signal for the two revolvers to be discharged. The
captain did not appear at the report of the arms as expected; but he
ordered the two hands at work at the after-hatch to go aft and look out
for the prisoners. The two seamen on that side of the steamer dropped
upon them, gagged them, and secured them so quickly that they could
hardly have known what had happened to them. The enterprise had been
inaugurated without much noise; but the captain had heard it, and called
one of the men at the fore-hatch to take the wheel, from which it
appeared that he had been steering the steamer himself.

The naval officer saw this man enter the pilot-house, from which Captain
Stopfoot had come out. He moved aft quite briskly with a revolver in his
hand; but as soon as he had reached the point where the mate had dropped
upon him, Christy leaped upon his head and shoulders, and he sank to
the deck, borne down by the weight of his assailant. He was surprised,
as the first victim of the movement had been, and a handkerchief was
stuffed into his mouth. He had dropped his weapon, which Christy picked
up and discharged while his knees were placed on the chest of the
prostrate commander, and his left hand grappled his throat. He was
conquered as quickly as the first victim had been.

The shots had been the signal for all not engaged to rally at the side
of the lieutenant, and the men rushed forward. All of them had removed
their neck handkerchiefs to serve as gags, and they brought with them
the lines with which they had been bound. The captain was rolled over,
and his arms tied behind him. He was sent aft to the cabin, while
Christy led six of his crew forward. The hands in the hold had attempted
to come on deck, but the two sailors at each hatch dropped upon them.

In less than five minutes every one of the crew of the Reindeer had been
"jumped upon," as the sailors put it, bound, and marched to the cabin.
The battle was fought and the victory won. Christy was quite as happy as
Captain Stopfoot had been when he had taken possession of the steamer.
The man at the wheel had been the last to be secured, and Calwood was
put in his place, with directions to come about and steer for Egmont
Key.

Christy determined not to make the mistake Captain Stopfoot had
committed in leaving his prisoners insufficiently guarded. He selected
four of his best men, ordered them to hold the cutlass in the right hand
and the revolver in the left, and to keep their eyes on the prisoners
all the time. He then went to those who had been gagged, and removed the
handkerchiefs from their mouths.

"I am as grateful to you, Captain Stopfoot, as you were to me less than
an hour ago," said Christy, and he removed the gag from his mouth. "I am
happy to be able to reciprocate your complimentary speeches."

"I am not aware that I have done anything to merit your gratitude, Mr.
Passford," said the chief prisoner.

"You are not? Why, my dear Captain, you could not have arranged
everything better than you did for the recapture of the Reindeer,"
replied Christy.

"I did not think that ten men with their hands tied behind them could do
anything to help themselves; but you Yankees are very ingenious, and it
seems that you found a way to liberate yourselves. Besides, I had a hand
here to watch you, with instructions to call me if there was any
trouble," added the captain, in an apologetic tone.

"When the trouble came he was not in condition to call you," the
lieutenant explained.

"No, sar! Dem beggars gagged me, and den robbed me of all my money!"
howled Quimp, whose greatest grievance was the loss of his fifteen
dollars.

"That was hardly justifiable, Mr. Passford," added the captain shaking
his head.

"It would not have been justifiable if the rogue had not first swindled
me out of the money," replied the naval officer.

"How was that?" asked the chief prisoner.

Christy explained the manner in which he had encountered Quimp, saying
that he had paid him five dollars for the loss of his boat, and ten for
the information that a steamer was loaded with cotton and ready to sail
behind the long key.

"Quimp is as smart as a Yankee," said Captain Stopfoot, laughing in
spite of his misfortune. "The flatboat was one we picked up on one of
the keys; and the information was precisely what I instructed Quimp to
give you, without money and without price. I promised to give him ten
dollars if he would pretend to be an honest nigger, and do the job
properly. I have no fault to find with him; but under present
circumstances I have not ten dollars to give him. I have lost the
steamer and the cotton, and it seems to be all up with me."

"I hope you will get into a safer business, Captain. I will suggest to
the commander of the Bellevite that you and your party be landed at
Gasparilla Pass; and I shall thus be able to reciprocate your good
intentions towards me."

Christy had sent some of his men forward, and he now followed them
himself. The engineers had remained in their room, and kept the
machinery in motion. As the Reindeer approached Egmont Key, the
Bellevite, followed by the Bronx towing a schooner, were discovered
coming out of the bay.

It was evident that the second lieutenant's capture had not been the
only one during the day, and he concluded that Mr. Lobscott had brought
out the schooner that had been supposed to be at Piney Point.

The Reindeer was about two miles south of Egmont Key when the Bellevite
came out of the bay, and the latter stopped her screw as soon as she had
reached a favorable position a mile from the island. Christy brought his
prize as near to her as it was prudent to go in the open sea. The
lieutenant went to the cabin to look out for the prisoners there, and
found that the four men who had been detailed a guard were marching up
and down the cabin in front of their charge, plainly determined that the
steamer should not be captured again.

"Boat from the Bellevite, sir," said one of the men on the quarter.

"Where is the Bronx and her prize now, Kingman?" asked Christy.

"Just coming by the island, sir."

In a few minutes more the third cutter of the Bellevite came alongside.
Mr. Walbrook, the third lieutenant of the ship, came on board of the
Reindeer, and touched his cap to his superior officer.

"Captain Breaker requests you to report on board of the ship, and I am
directed to take charge of the prize you have captured, Mr. Passford."

"I will go on board at once, Mr. Walbrook," replied Christy. "It is
necessary for me to inform you before I leave that this steamer has
changed hands twice to-day, and her ship's company have given me a great
deal of trouble. The prisoners are in the cabin under guard, and I must
caution you to be vigilant. Calwood will inform you in regard to the
particulars."

"I am sorry to inform you that Mr. Blowitt was severely, if not
dangerously wounded in the action with the battery up the bay, where we
had some sharp work," added Mr. Walbrook.

"That is very bad news to me," replied Christy, who had known the
wounded man as second officer of the Bellevite when she was his father's
yacht, and had served under him when she became a man-of-war, and as his
first lieutenant in the Bronx.

The intelligence filled him with anxiety and sorrow; but while he was
fighting for the right, as he had been for three years, he could not
give way to his feelings. Without asking for the result of the action up
the bay, he went over the side into the cutter, and ordered the crew to
pull for the ship. Mr. Blowitt had been more than his superior officer,
he had been his friend, and the young lieutenant was very sad while he
thought of the wounded officer.

He found Captain Breaker on the quarter-deck; and he could see from his
expression that he was greatly affected by the condition of his
executive officer. Mr. Dashington, his first officer in the yacht, had
been killed in action the year before, and now another of his intimate
associates might soon be registered in the Valhalla of the nation's dead
who had perished while fighting for the right.

"We have sad news for you, Mr. Passford," said the commander, who seemed
to be struggling with his emotions.

"But I hope there is a chance for Mr. Blowitt's recovery, Captain
Breaker," added Christy.

"I am afraid there is not. Dr. Linscott has very little hope that he
will live. But we have no time to mourn even for our best friends. You
have captured a steamer and brought her out; but I saw that you were
coming up from the southward when I first discovered the steamer. What
does that mean, Mr. Passford?"

"I hardly know, Captain, whether I brought her out, or she brought me
out," replied Christy, who felt very tender over the Southern Yankee
trick which had been played upon him. "The steamer is the Reindeer,
Captain Stopfoot. My boat's crew were overpowered by her ship's company,
and we were all made prisoners; but we rebelled against the humiliating
circumstances, and recaptured the steamer."

"Then you have redeemed yourself," added the captain.

Christy gave a detailed report of all the events that had occurred
during his absence from the ship. The commander listened to him with the
deepest interest; for the young officer was in some sense his _protg_,
and had sometimes been his instructor in navigation and seamanship. In
spite of the sadness of the hour, there was a smile on his face when he
comprehended the scheme of the captain of the Reindeer to get his vessel
out of the bay in the face of two men-of-war.

While Christy was still on the quarter-deck, Mr. Lobscott came on board,
and reported the capture of the schooner Sylphide, full of cotton. Her
ship's company, consisting of six men, were on board of the Bronx.
Captain Breaker planked the deck for some time, evidently making up his
mind what to do with the prizes and with their crews, for he did not
regard these men as prisoners of war. He asked the second lieutenant
some questions in regard to the character of the Reindeer. She was an
old-fashioned craft, but a good vessel.

"We are rather overburdened with prisoners, and I desire only to get rid
of them," said the captain.

"Captain Stopfoot was considerate enough to announce his intention to
put me and my men on shore at Gasparilla Pass; and I promised to
reciprocate the favor by suggesting that he and his ship's company be
landed at the same place."

"That will be a good way to get rid of them, and I will adopt the
suggestion," replied the commander.

All the rest of the day and a part of the night were used up in making
the preparations for disposing of the prizes. A large number of hands
were sent on board of the Reindeer, and her cotton was nearly all placed
in the hold by good stowage. The prisoners from both prizes, except the
engineers and firemen, who were willing to work for wages, were
transferred to the Bronx. Mr. Lobscott was appointed prize-master of the
steamer, which was to tow the schooner to Key West, where both were to
be disposed of as circumstances might require.

The Bronx was to convoy the two vessels as far as the Pass, where she
was to land her prisoners, and then return to her consort. At midnight
this fleet sailed. A protest against being landed at the place indicated
came from Captain Stopfoot before it departed; but the commander paid no
attention to it, declaring that if the Pass was good enough for one of
his officers, it was good enough for the captain of a blockade-runner.

"Mr. Passford, by the lamentable accident to Mr. Blowitt, you become the
ranking lieutenant in condition for service," said Captain Breaker, soon
after the young officer had reported the capture of the Reindeer. "You
therefore become the acting executive officer of the Bellevite."

"Of course I shall do my duty faithfully, Captain Breaker, in whatever
position is assigned to me," replied Christy, his bosom swelling with
emotion. "I regret more than anything else the occasion that makes it
necessary to put me in this place; and I am very sorry to be called upon
to occupy a position of so much responsibility."

"You are competent to discharge the duties of executive officer, Mr.
Passford, though I appreciate your modesty in not desiring such an
important position; but there is no alternative at present."

It was therefore under Christy's direction that all the arrangements for
sending off the prizes were made. The Bronx returned at noon the next
day, and both vessels sailed to the station of the flag-officer. The
commander reported that he had silenced two batteries, captured a
steamer and a schooner, sending them to Key West; but the shoal water in
the vicinity of Tampa had prevented him from capturing the town.

Christy, in becoming first lieutenant, was relieved from duty as a watch
officer; but his duties and responsibilities had been vastly increased.
He was the second in command, and a shot from another vessel or a
battery on shore might make him the commander, and he certainly did not
aspire to such a charge and such an honor. There was something in the
situation that worried him greatly. Captain Breaker had not been to the
North since he entered upon his duties, now very nearly three years, and
the state of his health had given Dr. Linscott considerable uneasiness.

Mr. Blowitt was sent home by a store-ship; but he died soon after his
arrival; and his loving companions-in-arms could not follow his remains
to an honored grave.

The flag-officer, either because he believed that Christy was a faithful
and competent officer, in spite of his age, though in this respect he
had added a year to his span, or that no other officer was available for
the vacant position, made no other appointment, and Christy was
compelled to retain the place, very much against his desire. As he
thought of it he was absolutely astonished to find himself, even
temporarily, in so exalted a position.

Here we are obliged to leave him for the present, crowned with honors
far beyond his most sanguine expectations, but always willing to do his
duty while fighting for the right. The future was still before him; he
had not yet done all there was for him to do; and in the early years of
his manhood came his reward, in common with the loyal sons of the
nation, in A VICTORIOUS UNION.




OLIVER OPTIC'S BOOKS

+All-Over-the-World Library.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. First Series.
    Illustrated. Price per volume, $1.25.

  1. +A Missing Million+; or, The Adventures of Louis Belgrade.
  2. +A Millionaire at Sixteen+; or, The Cruise of the "Guardian
        Mother."
  3. +A Young Knight Errant+; or, Cruising in the West Indies.
  4. +Strange Sights Abroad+; or, Adventures in European Waters.

  No author has come before the public during the present generation
  who has achieved a larger and more deserving popularity among young
  people than "Oliver Optic." His stories have been very numerous,
  but they have been uniformly excellent in moral tone and literary
  quality. As indicated in the general title, it is the author's
  intention to conduct the readers of this entertaining series "around
  the world." As a means to this end, the hero of the story purchases
  a steamer which he names the "Guardian Mother," and with a number of
  guests she proceeds on her voyage.--_Christian Work, N.Y._


+All-Over-the-World Library.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. Second Series.
    Illustrated. Price per volume, $1.25.

  1. +American Boys Afloat+; or, Cruising in the Orient.
  2. +The Young Navigator+; or, The Foreign Cruise of the "Maud."
  3. +Up and Down the Nile+; or, Young Adventurers in Africa.
  4. +Asiatic Breeze+; or, Students on the Wing.

  The interest in these stories is continuous, and there is a great
  variety of exciting incident woven into the solid information which
  the book imparts so generously and without the slightest suspicion
  of dryness. Manly boys will welcome this volume as cordially as they
  did its predecessors.--_Boston Gazette_.


+All-Over-the-World Library.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. Third Series.
    Illustrated. Price per volume, $1.25.

  1. +Across India+; or, Live Boys in the Far East.
  2. +Half Round the World+; or, Among the Uncivilized.
  3. +Four Young Explorers+; or, Sight-Seeing in the Tropics.
  4. +Pacific Shores+; or, Adventures in Eastern Seas.

  Amid such new and varied surroundings it would be surprising indeed
  if the author, with his faculty of making even the commonplace
  attractive, did not tell an intensely interesting story of
  adventure, as well as give much information in regard to the distant
  countries through which our friends pass, and the strange peoples
  with whom they are brought in contact. This book, and indeed the
  whole series, is admirably adapted to reading aloud in the family
  circle, each volume containing matter which will interest all the
  members of the family.--_Boston Budget_.


LEE AND SHEPARD, BOSTON, SEND THEIR COMPLETE CATALOGUE FREE.


OLIVER OPTIC'S BOOKS

+Army and Navy Stories.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. Six volumes. Illustrated.
    Any volume sold separately. Price per volume, $1.25.

  1. +The Soldier Boy+; or, Tom Somers in the Army.
  2. +The Sailor Boy+; or, Jack Somers in the Navy.
  3. +The Young Lieutenant+; or, Adventures of an Army Officer.
  4. +The Yankee Middy+; or, Adventures of a Navy Officer.
  5. +Fighting Joe+; or, The Fortunes of a Staff Officer.
  6. +Brave Old Salt+; or, Life on the Quarter Deck.

  "This series of six volumes recounts the adventures of two brothers,
  Tom and Jack Somers, one in the army, the other in the navy, in
  the great Civil War. The romantic narratives of the fortunes and
  exploits of the brothers are thrilling in the extreme. Historical
  accuracy in the recital of the great events of that period is
  strictly followed, and the result is, not only a library of
  entertaining volumes, but also the best history of the Civil War
  for young people ever written."


+Boat Builders Series.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. In six volumes. Illustrated.
    Any volume sold separately. Price per volume, $1.25.

  1. +All Adrift+; or, The Goldwing Club.
  2. +Snug Harbor+; or, The Champlain Mechanics.
  3. +Square and Compasses+; or, Building the House.
  4. +Stem to Stern+; or, Building the Boat.
  5. +All Taut+; or, Rigging the Boat.
  6. +Ready About+; or, Sailing the Boat.

  "The series includes in six successive volumes the whole art of boat
  building, boat rigging, boat managing, and practical hints to make
  the ownership of a boat pay. A great deal of useful information
  is given in this +Boat Builders Series+, and in each book a very
  interesting story is interwoven with the information. Every reader
  will be interested at once in Dory, the hero of 'All Adrift,' and
  one of the characters retained in the subsequent volumes of the
  series. His friends will not want to lose sight of him, and every
  boy who makes his acquaintance in 'All Adrift' will become his
  friend."


+Riverdale Story Books.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. Twelve volumes. Illustrated.
    Illuminated covers. Price: cloth, per set, $3.60; per volume,
    30 cents.

  1. +Little Merchant.+       7. +Proud and Lazy.+
  2. +Young Voyagers.+        8. +Careless Kate.+
  3. +Christmas Gift.+        9. +Robinson Crusoe, Jr.+
  4. +Dolly and I.+          10. +The Picnic Party.+
  5. +Uncle Ben.+            11. +The Gold Thimble.+
  6. +Birthday Party.+       12. +The Do-Somethings.+

+Riverdale Story Books.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. Six volumes. Illustrated.
    Fancy cloth and colors. Price per volume, 30 cents.

  1. +Little Merchant.+       4. +Careless Kate.+
  2. +Proud and Lazy.+        5. +Dolly and I.+
  3. +Young Voyagers.+        6. +Robinson Crusoe, Jr.+

+Flora Lee Library.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. Six volumes. Illustrated.
    Fancy cloth and colors. Price per volume, 30 cents.

  1. +The Picnic Party.+      4. +Christmas Gift.+
  2. +The Gold Thimble.+      5. +Uncle Ben.+
  3. +The Do-Somethings.+     6. +Birthday Party.+

  These are bright short stories for younger children who are unable
  to comprehend the +Starry Flag Series+ or the +Army and Navy
  Series+. But they all display the author's talent for pleasing
  and interesting the little folks. They are all fresh and original,
  preaching no sermons, but inculcating good lessons.


LEE AND SHEPARD, BOSTON, SEND THEIR COMPLETE CATALOGUE FREE.


OLIVER OPTIC'S BOOKS

+The Great Western Series.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. In six volumes.
    Illustrated. Any volume sold separately. Price per volume, $1.25.

  1. +Going West+; or, The Perils of a Poor Boy.
  2. +Out West+; or, Roughing it on the Great Lakes.
  3. +Lake Breezes+; or, The cruise of the Sylvania.
  4. +Going South+; or, Yachting on the Atlantic Coast.
  5. +Down South+; or, Yacht Adventures in Florida.
  6. +Up the River+; or, Yachting on the Mississippi.

  "This is the latest series of books issued by this popular writer,
  and deals with life on the Great Lakes, for which a careful study
  was made by the author in a summer tour of the immense water sources
  of America. The story, which carries the same hero through the six
  books of the series, is always entertaining, novel scenes and varied
  incidents giving a constantly changing yet always attractive aspect
  to the narrative. OLIVER OPTIC has written nothing better."


+The Yacht Club Series.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. In six volumes. Illustrated.
Any volume sold separately. Price per volume, $1.25.

  1. +Little Bobtail+; or, The Wreck of the Penobscot.
  2. +The Yacht Club+; or, The Young Boat Builders.
  3. +Money-Maker+; or, The Victory of the Basilisk.
  4. +The Coming Wave+; or, The Treasure of High Rock.
  5. +The Dorcas Club+; or, Our Girls Afloat.
  6. +Ocean Born+; or, The Cruise of the Clubs.

  "The series has this peculiarity, that all of its constituent
  volumes are independent of one another, and therefore each story is
  complete in itself. OLIVER OPTIC is, perhaps, the favorite author of
  the boys and girls of this country, and he seems destined to enjoy
  an endless popularity. He deserves his success, for he makes very
  interesting stories, and inculcates none but the best sentiments,
  and the 'Yacht Club' is no exception to this rule."--_New Haven
  Journal and Courier_.


+Onward and Upward Series+. By OLIVER OPTIC. In six volumes.
Illustrated. Any volume sold separately. Price per volume, $1.25.

  1. +Field and Forest+; or, The Fortunes of a Farmer.
  2. +Plane and Plank+; or, The Mishaps of a Mechanic.
  3. +Desk and Debit+; or, The Catastrophes of a Clerk.
  4. +Cringle and Crosstree+; or, The Sea Swashes of a Sailor.
  5. +Bivouac and Battle+; or, The Struggles of a Soldier.
  6. +Sea and Shore+; or, The Tramps of a Traveller.

  "Paul Farringford, the hero of these tales, is, like most of this
  author's heroes, a young man of high spirit, and of high aims and
  correct principles, appearing in the different volumes as a farmer,
  a captain, a bookkeeper, a soldier, a sailor, and a traveller. In
  all of them the hero meets with very exciting adventures, told in
  the graphic style for which the author is famous."


+The Lake Shore Series+. By OLIVER OPTIC. In six volumes. Illustrated.
Any volume sold separately. Price per volume, $1.25.

  1. +Through by Daylight+; or, The Young Engineer of the Lake Shore
        Railroad.
  2. +Lightning Express+; or, The Rival Academies.
  3. +On Time+; or, The Young Captain of the Ucayga Steamer.
  4. +Switch Off+; or, The War of the Students.
  5. +Brake Up+; or, The Young Peacemakers.
  6. +Bear and Forbear+; or, The Young Skipper of Lake Ucayga.

  "OLIVER OPTIC is one of the most fascinating writers for youth, and
  withal one of the best to be found in this or any past age. Troops
  of young people hang over his vivid pages; and not one of them ever
  learned to be mean, ignoble, cowardly, selfish, or to yield to any
  vice from anything they ever read from his pen."--_Providence
  Press_.


LEE AND SHEPARD, BOSTON, SEND THEIR COMPLETE CATALOGUE FREE.


OLIVER OPTIC'S BOOKS

+The Famous Boat Club Series.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. Six volumes.
    Illustrated. Any volume sold separately. Price per volume $1.25.

  1. +The Boat Club+; or, The Bunkers of Rippleton.
  2. +All Aboard+; or, Life on the Lake.
  3. +Now or Never+; or, The Adventures of Bobby Bright.
  4. +Try Again+; or, The Trials and Triumphs of Harry West.
  5. +Poor and Proud+; or, The Fortunes of Katy Redburn.
  6. +Little by Little+; or, The Cruise of the Flyaway.

  "This is the first series of books written for the young by OLIVER
  OPTIC. It laid the foundation for his fame as the first of authors
  in which the young delight, and gained for him the title of the
  Prince of Story Tellers. The six books are varied in incident and
  plot, but all are entertaining and original."


+Young America Abroad+: A Library of Travel and Adventure in Foreign
    Lands. By OLIVER OPTIC. Illustrated by Nast and others.
    First Series. Six volumes. Any volume sold separately. Price per
    volume, $1.25.

  1. +Outward Bound+; or, Young America Afloat.
  2. +Shamrock and Thistle+; or, Young America in Ireland and Scotland.
  3. +Red Cross+; or, Young America in England and Wales.
  4. +Dikes and Ditches+; or, Young America in Holland and Belgium.
  5. +Palace and Cottage+; or, Young America in France and Switzerland.
  6. +Down the Rhine+; or, Young America in Germany.

  "The story from its inception, and through the twelve volumes (see
  Second Series), is a bewitching one, while the information imparted
  concerning the countries of Europe and the isles of the sea is not
  only correct in every particular, but is told in a captivating
  style. OLIVER OPTIC will continue to be the boys' friend, and his
  pleasant books will continue to be read by thousands of American
  boys. What a fine holiday present either or both series of 'Young
  America Abroad' would be for a young friend! It would make a little
  library highly prized by the recipient, and would not be an
  expensive one."--_Providence Press_.


+Young America Abroad.+ By OLIVER OPTIC. Second Series. Six volumes.
    Illustrated. Any volume sold separately. Price per volume, $1.25.

  1. +Up the Baltic+; or, Young America in Norway, Sweden, and
       Denmark.
  2. +Northern Lands+; or, Young America in Russia and Prussia.
  3. +Cross and Crescent+; or, Young America in Turkey and Greece.
  4. +Sunny Shores+; or, Young America in Italy and Austria.
  5. +Vine and Olive+; or, Young America in Spain and Portugal.
  6. +Isles of the Sea+; or, Young America Homeward Bound.

  "OLIVER OPTIC is a _nom de plume_ that is known and loved by almost
  every boy of intelligence in the land. We have seen a highly
  intellectual and world-weary man, a cynic whose heart was somewhat
  embittered by its large experience of human nature, take up one of
  OLIVER OPTIC's books, and read it at a sitting, neglecting his work
  in yielding to the fascination of the pages. When a mature and
  exceedingly well-informed mind, long despoiled of all its freshness,
  can thus find pleasure in a book for boys, no additional words of
  recommendation are needed."--_Sunday Times_.


LEE AND SHEPARD, BOSTON, SEND THEIR COMPLETE CATALOGUE FREE.


       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *

Errata Noted by Transcriber:

Invisible punctuation has been silently supplied, and superfluous
quotation marks removed. Inconsistent hyphenation has been retained.

The spelling "cockswain" is standard for this text. The variation
between "knots" and "knots an hour" is as in the original.

"_Demandez un garcon_" (ask for a waiter), "Christophe."
  _cedilla missing in original_
and your wonderful skill as a detective
  _text reads "wonderful-skill"_
he could not breathe as freely as usual
  _text reads "breath"_
There was a port light to the room
  _so in original: "porthole"?_
the commander of that steamer
  _text reads "of of" at line break_
I heard the villanous ruffian swear that he would kill you
  _spelling "villanous" as in original_
"Do you know of any steamers ..." asked Christy.
  _entire paragraph as in original_
He knew that three of them had been secured
  _text reads "know"_
All of them had removed
  _text reads "of of"_






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Fighting for the Right, by Oliver Optic

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK FIGHTING FOR THE RIGHT ***

***** This file should be named 18803-8.txt or 18803-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/1/8/8/0/18803/

Produced by Louise Hope, David Garcia, Juliet Sutherland
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Kentuckiana Digital
Library)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org


Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations.
To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.


Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

Produced by Louise Hope, David Garcia, Juliet Sutherland
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Kentuckiana Digital
Library)






THE BLUE AND THE GRAY--AFLOAT

Two colors cloth  Emblematic Dies  Illustrated
Price per volume $1.50

  TAKEN BY THE ENEMY
  WITHIN THE ENEMY'S LINES
  ON THE BLOCKADE
  STAND BY THE UNION
  FIGHTING FOR THE RIGHT
  A VICTORIOUS UNION

THE BLUE AND THE GRAY--ON LAND

Two colors cloth  Emblematic Dies  Illustrated
Price per volume $1.50

  BROTHER AGAINST BROTHER
  IN THE SADDLE (In Press)
  A LIEUTENANT AT EIGHTEEN (In Press)
  (Other volumes in preparation)

Any Volume Sold Separately.
Lee and Shepard Publishers  Boston




  [Illustration: "Christy leaped upon the rail." Page 181.]




                      The

               BLUE AND THE GRAY

                     Series

                 [Illustration]

                By Oliver Optic

              A VICTORIOUS UNION




         _The Blue and the Gray Series_

               A VICTORIOUS UNION

                       by
                  OLIVER OPTIC

                   Author of
"The Army And Navy Series" "Young America Abroad,
First And Second Series" "The Great Western Series"
"The Woodville Stories" "The Starry Flag Series"
"The Boat-Club Stories" "The Onward and Upward Series"
"The Yacht-Club Series" "The Lake Shore Series"
"The Riverdale Stories" "The Boat-Builder Series"
"Taken by the Enemy" "Within the Enemy's Lines"
"On the Blockade" "Stand By the Union"
"Fighting for the Right" "A Missing Million"
"A Millionaire at Sixteen" "A Young Knight-Errant"
        "Strange Sights Abroad" etc.


                     BOSTON

          LEE AND SHEPARD Publishers
                 10 Milk Street

                      1894




      Copyright, 1893, by Lee and Shepard
             _All Rights Reserved_

               A Victorious Union


       Type-Setting and Electrotyping by
          C. J. Peters & Son, Boston
     S. J. Parkhill & Co., Printers, Boston




                  To My Friend

                FRANK L. HARRIS

Who came from the cold of the Arctic regions, where he
 was a member of the Hayes expedition, and went
 into the heat of the War of the Rebellion,
          serving as a Naval officer
         until the end of the strife,

To whom I am greatly indebted for much valuable
    information relating to his profession,

                   This Book

            Is Gratefully Dedicated.




PREFACE


"A VICTORIOUS UNION" is the sixth and last of "The Blue and the Gray
Series." While the volume is not intended to be a connected historical
narrative of the particular period of the War of the Rebellion in which
its scenes are laid, the incidents accurately conform to the facts,
and especially to the spirit, of the eventful years in which they are
placed, as recorded in the chronicles of the great struggle, and as they
exist in the memory of the writer. It is more than thirty years since
the war began, and thousands upon thousands of the active participants
in the strife as soldiers and sailors, including nearly all the great
commanders, have passed on to their eternal reward. Thousands upon
thousands of men and women have been born and reached their maturity
since the most tremendous war of modern times ended in A Victorious
Union. The knowledge of the stirring events of those four years of
conflict, and of the patriotic spirit which inspired and underlaid
them, has come, or will come, to at least one-half the population
of this vast nation of sixty-five millions from the printed page or
through the listening ear. The other moiety, more or less, either as
children or adults, lived in the period of action, saw the gathering
battalions, and heard or read the daily reports from the ensanguined
battle-fields.

In some of the States that remained loyal to the Union throughout the
long struggle, a military parade had been regarded by many as something
very much in the nature of a circus display, as "fuss and feathers,"
such as tickled the vanity of both officer and private. Military
organizations, except in our small regular army, were disparaged and
ridiculed. When the war came, the Northern people were unprepared for
it to a very great degree. The change of public opinion was as sudden
as the mighty event was precipitate. Then the soldier became the most
prominent and honored member of the community, and existing military
bodies became the nucleus of the armies that were to fight the battles
of the Republic.

During the last thirty years the military spirit has been kept alive as
a constituent element of patriotism itself. The love of country has been
diligently fostered and nurtured in the young, and public opinion has
been voiced and energized in the statutes of many States, and in the
educational machinery of many municipalities. Over vast numbers of
schoolhouses in our land floats the American flag, the symbol of the
Union and the principles that underlie it.

The flag, the banner now of a reunited nation, means something more than
the sentiment of loyalty to the Union as the home of freedom; for it
implies the duty of defending the honor of that flag, the representative
idea of all we hold dear in Fatherland. In the East and the West a
considerable proportion of the high schools make military tactics a part
of their educational course. Companies, battalions, and regiments of
young men in their teens parade the streets of some of our cities,
showing in what manner the military spirit is kept alive, and, at the
same time, how the flag floating over our educational institutions,
which means so much more than ever before to our people, is to be
defended and perpetuated in the future.

The author of the six volumes of "The Blue and the Gray Series," as well
as of "The Army and Navy Series," the latter begun in the heat of the
war thirty years ago, earnestly believes in keeping active in the minds
of the young the spirit of patriotism. In the present volume, as in
those which have preceded it, he has endeavored to present to his
readers, not only a hero who is brave, skilful, and ready to give his
life for his country, but one who is unselfishly patriotic; one who is
not fighting for promotion and prize-money, but to save the Union in
whose integrity and necessity he believes as the safeguard and substance
of American liberty.

Peace has reigned in our land for nearly thirty years, and the
asperities of a relentless war have been supplanted by better and more
brotherly relations between the North and the South. The writer would
not print a word that would disturb these improving conditions; and if
he has erred at all in picturing the intercourse between Americans as
enemies, he has made sure to do so in the interests of justice and
magnanimity on both sides.

In the series of which this volume is the last, the author has confined
his narrative of adventures to the navy. It has been suggested to him
that another series, relating exclusively to incidents in the army,
should follow. After forty years of labor in this particular field, and
having already exhausted the threescore and ten of human life, he cannot
be assured that he will live long enough to complete such a series,
though still in excellent health; but he intends to make a beginning
of the work as soon as other engagements will permit.

  William T. Adams.

    Dorchester, March 16, 1893.




CONTENTS

                                              Page
CHAPTER I.
The Mission to Mobile Point                     15

CHAPTER II.
The Departure of the Expedition                 26

CHAPTER III.
A Bivouac near Fort Morgan                      37

CHAPTER IV.
The Revelations of the Revellers                48

CHAPTER V.
In the Vicinity of the Confederate Fort         59

CHAPTER VI.
Captain Sullendine of the West Wind             70

CHAPTER VII.
A Powerful Ally of the Belleviters              81

CHAPTER VIII.
On Board of the Cotton Schooner                 92

CHAPTER IX.
The Departure of the Tallahatchie              103

CHAPTER X.
The Casting off of the Towline                 114

CHAPTER XI.
A Happy Return to the Bellevite                125

CHAPTER XII.
A Lively Chase to the South-West               136

CHAPTER XIII.
The First Shot of Blumenhoff                   147

CHAPTER XIV.
The Progress of the Action                     158

CHAPTER XV.
A Flank Movement Undertaken                    169

CHAPTER XVI.
The Lieutenant's Daring Exploit                180

CHAPTER XVII.
A Magnanimous Enemy                            191

CHAPTER XVIII.
The Reign of Christianity                      202

CHAPTER XIX.
Colonel Homer Passford of Glenfield            213

CHAPTER XX.
A Very Melancholy Confederate                  224

CHAPTER XXI.
Captain Sullendine Becomes Violent             225

CHAPTER XXII.
The Disposition of the Two Prizes              246

CHAPTER XXIII.
The Welcome Home at Bonnydale                  257

CHAPTER XXIV.
Lieutenant-Commander Christopher Passford      268

CHAPTER XXV.
The Principal Officers of the St. Regis        279

CHAPTER XXVI.
The St. Regis in Commission                    290

CHAPTER XXVII.
Captain Passford Alone in his Glory            301

CHAPTER XXVIII.
Off the Coast of North Carolina                312

CHAPTER XXIX.
The First Prize of the St. Regis               323

CHAPTER XXX.
Another Sailing Contest Inaugurated            334

CHAPTER XXXI.
A Victorious Union                             345




A VICTORIOUS UNION




CHAPTER I

THE MISSION TO MOBILE POINT


"I almost wish you were the second or the third lieutenant of the
Bellevite, instead of the executive officer, Christy," said Captain
Breaker, the commander of the steamer, as they were seated together
one day on the quarter-deck.

"Do I fail in the discharge of my duty in my present position, Captain?"
asked Christy, very much astonished, not to say startled, at the remark
of the commander.

"Not in the slightest degree, my dear boy!" returned Captain Breaker
with very decided emphasis. "You have served in your present capacity
for four months; and if you were fifty years old, and had twenty years
of naval experience behind you, it would be hardly possible for you to
be more correct and dignified in the performance of the details of your
office."

"I thank you, Captain, for the partial view you take of what I have
done," added Christy, taking off his cap and bowing to his superior.

"Well, you ought to be a good officer in any situation, my dear fellow,"
continued the commander. "I doubt if there is another officer in the
navy who has enjoyed the advantages you have had in preparing himself
for the duties of his profession. You were brought up, so to say, on
board of the Bellevite. You were a good scholar in the first place.
Without including myself, you have had excellent teachers in every
department of science and philosophy, among whom your father was one
of the wisest. Poor Dashington was one of the best seamen that ever trod
a deck; and he took especial delight in showing you how to make every
knot and splice, as well as in instructing you in the higher details of
practical seamanship. Blowitt and myself assisted him, and old Boxie,
who gave his life to his country, was more than a grandfather to you."

"I have certainly been very grateful to you and to them for all they did
for me," replied Christy with a sad expression on his handsome face as
the commander recalled the three shipmates of both of them who slept in
heroes' graves.

"Perhaps the brilliant genius of our engine-room did quite as much for
you as any other person, though not many years your senior."

"Paul Vapoor is my friend and crony; and if he had been my professor in
a college he could have done no more for me. I assure you, Captain, that
I keep alive my gratitude to all my instructors, including some you have
not mentioned."

"I was only explaining why you are what you ought to be, for you have
had very exceptional opportunities, better by far than any other officer
in the service. But it is altogether to your credit that you have used
those opportunities wisely and well."

"I should have been a blockhead if I had not."

"That is very true; but the mournful wrecks of wasted opportunities
strew the tracks of many, many young men. I think you can look back
upon as few of them as any one within my knowledge," said the commander,
bestowing a look of genuine affection upon his chief officer. "More than
once, even before we entered upon this terrible war, I have told your
father how happy he ought to be in having such a son as you are."

"Come, come, Captain Breaker, you are praising me!" exclaimed Christy
impatiently.

"I am speaking only the simple truth, and I have very rarely said as
much as I say now. It was when you asked me if you had failed in the
discharge of the duties of your present position that I was led into
this line of remark; and I am sure you will not be spoiled by honest
and just praise," replied the captain.

"Then, to go back to the point where you began, why do you almost wish
that I were second or third lieutenant, instead of executive officer,
of the Bellevite, Captain?" continued Christy, rising from his seat, and
fixing an earnest gaze upon the face of the commander, for he was very
sensitive, and he could not help feeling that he had been lacking in
something that would make him a better executive officer than he was.

"Mr. Ballard, the second lieutenant, and Mr. Walbrook, the third, are
gentlemen of the highest grade, and excellent officers; but they are
both somewhat wanting in dash and cool impetuosity."

"'Cool impetuosity' is very good, Captain," added Christy with a laugh.

"But that is precisely what I mean, my boy, and no two words could
express the idea any better. You cannot carry an enemy by boarding with
the same precision you man the yards on a ceremonious occasion, or as a
regiment of soldiers go on dress parade. It requires vim, dash, spirit.
The officers named have this quality in a very considerable degree, yet
not enough of it. But what they lack more is ingenuity, fertility in
expedients, and the expansive view which enables them to take advantage
promptly of circumstances. You never lose your head, Christy."

"I never knew the gentlemen named to lose their heads, and I have always
regarded them as model officers," replied the first lieutenant.

"And so they are: you are quite right, my dear boy; but it is possible
for them to be all you say, and yet, like the young man of great
possessions in the Scripture, to lack one thing. I should not dare to
exchange my second and third lieutenants for any others if I had the
opportunity."

"I confess that I do not understand you yet, Captain."

The commander rose from his seat, stretched himself, and then looked
about the deck. Taking his camp-stool in his hand he carried it over to
the port side of the quarter-deck, and planted it close to the bulwarks.
The second lieutenant was the officer of the deck, and was pacing the
planks on the starboard side, while the lookouts in the foretop and on
the top-gallant forecastle were attending closely to their duty,
doubtless with a vision of more prize money floating through their
brains.

The Bellevite, with the fires banked in the furnaces, was at anchor
off the entrance to Mobile Bay, about two miles east of Sand Island
Lighthouse, and the same distance south of the narrow neck of land on
the western extremity of which Fort Morgan is located. Her commander had
chosen this position for a purpose; for several weeks before, while the
Bellevite was absent on a special mission, a remarkably fast steamer
called the Trafalgar had run the blockade inward.

Captain Passford, Senior, through his agents in England, had some
information in regard to this vessel, which he had sent to Captain
Breaker. Unlike most of the blockade-runners built for this particular
service, she had been constructed in the most substantial manner for an
English millionaire, who had insisted that she should be built as strong
as the best of steel could make her, for he intended to make a voyage
around the world in her.

Unfortunately for the owner of the Trafalgar, who was a lineal
descendant of a titled commander in that great naval battle, he fell
from his horse in a fox chase, and was killed before the steamer was
fully completed. His heir had no taste for the sea, and the steamer was
sold at a price far beyond her cost; and the purchaser had succeeded in
getting her into Mobile Bay with a valuable cargo. She was of about
eight hundred tons burden, and it was said that she could steam twenty
knots an hour. She was believed to be the equal of the Alabama and the
Shenandoah. The Bellevite had been especially notified not to allow the
Trafalgar to escape. She had recently had her bottom cleaned, and her
engine put in perfect order for the service expected of her, for she was
the fastest vessel on the blockade.

When Captain Breaker had assured himself that he was out of hearing of
the officer of the deck, he invited Christy to take a seat at his side.
He spoke in a low tone, and was especially careful that no officer
should hear him.

"Perhaps I meddle with what does not concern me, Christy; but I cannot
help having ideas of my own," said the commander, when he was satisfied
that no one but the executive officer could hear him. "There is Fort
Morgan, with Fort Gaines three miles from it on the other side of the
channel. Mobile Point, as it is called at this end of the neck, extends
many miles to the eastward. It is less than two miles wide where it is
broadest, and not over a quarter of a mile near Pilot Town."

"I have studied the lay of the land very carefully, for I have had some
ideas of my own," added Christy, as the commander paused.

"If Fort Morgan had been Fort Sumter, with bad memories clinging to it,
an effort would have been made to capture it, either by bombardment by
the navy, or by regular approaches on the part of the army," continued
Captain Breaker. "They are still pounding away at Fort Sumter, because
there would be a moral in its capture and the reduction of Charleston,
for the war began there. Such an event would send a wave of rejoicing
through the North, though it would be of less real consequence than the
opening of Mobile Bay and the cleaning out of the city of Mobile. Except
Wilmington, it is the most pestilent resort for blockade-runners on the
entire coast."

"Then you think Fort Morgan can be reduced from the land side?" asked
Christy, deeply interested in the conversation.

"I have little doubt of it; and while I believe Farragut will resort to
his favorite plan of running by the forts here, as he has done by those
of the Mississippi, the army will be planted in the rear of both these
forts. As we have lain here for months, I have studied the situation,
and I want to know something more about the land on the east of Mobile
Point."

"I should say that it would be easy enough to obtain all the information
you desire in regard to it," suggested Christy.

"There is an unwritten tradition that the commander must not leave his
ship to engage in any duty of an active character, and I cannot explore
the vicinity of the fort myself."

"But you have plenty of officers for such duty."

"I have no doubt there are pickets, and perhaps a camp beyond the rising
ground, and the exploration would be difficult and dangerous. The two
officers I have mentioned before lack the dash and ingenuity such an
enterprise requires; and a blunder might involve me in difficulty, for
I have no orders to obtain the information I desire."

"The officers named are prudent men within reasonable limits."

"They are; but I would give up my idea rather than trust either of them
with this duty," replied Captain Breaker very decidedly. "But I have a
further and nearer object in this exploration; in fact, examining the
ground would be only secondary."

"What is the real object, Captain?" asked the first lieutenant, his
curiosity fully awakened.

"I feel that it will be necessary to use extraordinary efforts to
capture the Trafalgar, for no steamer of her alleged speed has ever run
into or out of Mobile Bay. After I informed the flag-officer in regard
to her, which your father's information enabled me to do, the Bellevite
was especially charged with the duty of capturing her, if she had to
chase her all over the world."

"I have not much doubt that you will do it, Captain."

"I mean to do so if possible. Now these blockade-runners usually anchor
near the lower fleet, or under the guns of the fort in five fathoms of
water. Sometimes they remain there two or three days, waiting for a
favorable opportunity to run out. Perhaps the Trafalgar is there now.
I wish to know about it."

"I infer that you consider me fitted for this duty, Captain Breaker,"
said Christy earnestly.

"For that reason only I almost wished you were second or third
lieutenant, rather than first," replied the commander with some
earnestness in his manner.

There was no unwritten tradition that the first lieutenant should not be
sent on any duty.




CHAPTER II

THE DEPARTURE OF THE EXPEDITION


The conversation between the captain and the executive officer of the
Bellevite was continued till they were called to supper; but a decision
had been reached. On important occasions, as when several boats were
ordered upon an expedition, it was not unusual to send the first
lieutenant in command. Though only a single whaleboat would be required
for the enterprise in which the commander was so deeply interested, its
importance appeared to justify the selection of the executive officer to
conduct it; and Christy was directed to suit himself.

Of course the expedition was to be sent out at night, for the cover of
the darkness was necessary to render it effectual. In the afternoon the
wind had come around to the south-west, and already a slight fog had
obscured the Sand Island Lighthouse. It promised to be such a night as
a blockade-runner would select for getting to sea.

Christy was especially warned that the principal business of his
expedition was to obtain information in regard to the Trafalgar, though
it was probable that a new name had been given to her for the service
in which she was to be engaged. The examination of the surroundings of
the fort, the captain strongly impressed upon his mind, was entirely
subsidiary to the discovery of the intending blockade-runner. In fact,
the commander seemed to have serious doubts as to whether it was proper
for him even to reconnoitre without special orders for the use of the
army.

It was several months that Christy had been on board of the Bellevite in
his present capacity, and he had become very well acquainted with all
the petty officers and seamen of the ship's company, now composed of one
hundred and twenty men. After he had finished his supper he walked about
the spar-deck to refresh his memory by a sight at all of the men, and
selected those who were to take part in his enterprise.

One of the first persons he encountered in his promenade was the third
assistant engineer, Charles Graines, whom he had known as a boy, before
the war. He was not only a machinist, but a sailor, having served in
both capacities, though now only twenty-five years of age. Through his
father Christy had procured his appointment as an engineer, and his
assignment to the Bellevite. The young man was exceedingly grateful to
him for this service, and entirely devoted to him.

Paul Vapoor, the chief engineer, spoke of Graines in the highest terms,
not only in his official capacity, but as a high-toned, patriotic, and
thoroughly reliable man. The moment the executive officer put his eye on
the assistant engineer, he decided that Graines should be his right-hand
man. As a matter of precaution the proposed expedition was to be a
profound secret, for there were white men and negroes about the deck who
had been picked up in various ways, and were retained till they could be
disposed of. They could not be trusted, and doubtless some of them were
Confederates at heart, if not engaged in secret missions.

Christy invited Graines to the ward room for a conference. There were
several officers there, and they retired to the stateroom of the first
lieutenant, which is the forward one on the starboard side. The plan,
as it had been matured in the mind of the one appointed to carry it
out, was fully explained, and the engineer was delighted to be chosen to
take part in its execution. The selection of the seamen to compose the
expedition was not an easy matter, though every sailor on board would
have volunteered for such duty if the opportunity had been presented
to him.

Graines was not so familiar with the merits of the seamen as he was with
those of the men in the engineer department. It became necessary for the
executive officer to take another walk on the spar-deck, in order to
revive his recollection of the men; and he soon returned to the
stateroom with a complete list of those he had selected. The engineer
suggested an oiler by the name of Weeks as a most excellent man; and
Christy accepted him, completing the number from those of his own
choice. Seated at his desk, he wrote out the names of the ten men
chosen.

"Of course if we should be caught on shore in our ordinary uniforms it
would be all night with us," said Christy, as he completed the writing
out of the list. "I believe you have never seen the inside of a
Confederate prison, Mr. Graines."

"Never; though I came pretty near it once while I was an oiler on board
of the Hatteras," replied the engineer.

"You have been fortunate, and I hope you will come out of this excursion
as well. I spent a short time in a Confederate lock-up; but I did not
like the arrangements, and I took leave of it one night. It was in
Mobile, and I don't care to be sent up there again. Therefore we must
clothe ourselves in the worst garments we can find; and I carry a suit
for just this purpose, though I have not had occasion to use it lately."

"I have to wear old clothes when at work on the machinery, and I have a
plentiful supply on hand," added Graines. "Perhaps I could help out some
of the others."

"All the seamen have old clothes, and they will need no assistance in
arranging their wardrobes. Now, Mr. Graines, it will excite remark if I
instruct the ten men we have selected, and I must leave that part of the
work to you," continued Christy. "But all the instruction you need give
them is in regard to their dress, and require them to be at the main
chains on the starboard side at ten o'clock to-night precisely."

"As I have plenty of time I will take the men, one at a time, to my room
in the steerage, and instruct them," replied the engineer.

"You can tell each one to send in the next one wanted. Above all,
make them promise not to speak to any person whatever in regard to the
expedition," said the executive officer as his companion retired.

Mr. Graines lost no time in discharging the important duty assigned
to him. Christy reported to the commander, as soon as he found an
opportunity to speak to him privately, what progress he had made in
carrying out the duty assigned to him. Captain Breaker looked over the
list of the men selected, and gave it his hearty approbation. He was a
man of elevated moral and religious character; he had always exercised a
sort of fatherly supervision over his ship's company, and he was better
acquainted with those under his command than most commanders.

"It looks as though it was going to be a good night for
blockade-runners, Mr. Passford," said Captain Breaker, as he looked
over to windward and saw the banks of fog, not yet very dense, rolling
up from the open gulf.

"It is not known, I suppose, whether or not the Trafalgar has come down
from Mobile?" inquired Christy.

"I have been unable to obtain any definite information; but a negro who
came off from the shore yesterday assured me there was a black steamer
at anchor between the Middle Ground and Mobile Point. That is all the
information I have been able to obtain, though I have examined all who
came on board during the last week. It is certainly time for the
Trafalgar to come out, as the Confederates are in great haste to
re-enforce the Alabama, the Shenandoah, and other cruisers; for these
vessels have made a tremendous impression upon our mercantile marine.
She has been in port long enough to rebuild her already, and I am
confident she must be ready for service."

"If I don't find her ready to come out to-night, would it not be well to
repeat my visit to the shore until we learn something about her?" asked
Christy.

"That is my purpose," replied the commander.

"I should like to have the scope of my powers as the officer of this
expedition a little more definitely defined, Captain Breaker," continued
the first lieutenant.

"I thought I had fully instructed you, Christy," answered the commander
with a smile.

"Am I to confine myself solely to the two points assigned to me?"

"I don't understand what you have in your mind, my boy."

"I have nothing in my mind, Captain. I have not laid out any plan of
operations outside of the instructions you have given me, sir; and I do
not purpose to do so. If I had the intention to do anything but the duty
assigned to me, I should assuredly inform you of it, and obtain your
orders."

"I know you would, my dear boy."

"But if I see an opportunity to do anything for the benefit of my
country"--

"Such as the capture of a sloop of war," interposed the commander with
a suggestive laugh. "When you were sent to look out for a small steamer,
simply to obtain information in regard to her, in Pensacola Bay, you
went on your mission, and brought out the Teaser, which afterwards
became the Bronx, and rendered very valuable service to the country
under your command."

"I could not very well help doing so when I saw my opportunity," replied
Christy, in an apologetic tone, as though he had been reproved for
exceeding his instructions.

"You did precisely right, Christy; and that act did more to make the
deservedly high reputation you have won than almost anything else you
have done, unless it was your achievements at Cedar Keys," added Captain
Breaker heartily.

"I am glad you have brought up the Teaser matter, Captain, for it just
illustrates what I have in my mind. If I see an opportunity to do such
a thing as that on the present occasion, I simply wish to know whether
or not I am to confine my operations to the strict letter of my
instructions. Of course, if so instructed, I shall obey my orders to the
letter."

"'The letter killeth, the spirit giveth life,' my boy. Your mission
always and everywhere is to serve your country, and you are to do this
on the present occasion. What I said about ingenuity in speaking of my
officers is covered in this case. If you can capture and send out the
Trafalgar, do it by all means, for that is the object in view in sending
off this expedition. Your head is level, Christy; and that is the reason
why I desired you to command this enterprise rather than either of the
other officers. I can trust you, and you have full powers to act on your
own judgment."

"I thank you for your abundant confidence, Captain; and I shall
endeavor not to abuse it," replied Christy. "But it is not even remotely
possible that I shall capture the Trafalgar; yet sometimes unexpected
opportunities are presented, and the letter of my orders might prevent
me from embracing them. I am very glad to know where I stand."

The night came on, and with it more fog; but it was of that flitting
kind which settles down and then blows away. It seemed to come in banks
that were continually in motion. The men who were to go to the shore had
all been instructed, and at precisely ten o'clock they were seated in
the whaleboat, with Mr. Graines in the stern sheets. They were all armed
with two revolvers apiece, and there was a cutlass for each in the boat.
The men had not only changed their dress, but they had disguised
themselves, smooching their faces with coal dust, and tearing their
garments till they were in tatters.

Christy had dressed himself in his old garments, but added to them a
gray coat he had obtained on board of a prize. The watch on deck had
been ordered to the forecastle, so that they need not too closely
observe the crew of the whaleboat. The chief of the expedition had
quietly descended to the platform of the after gangway, and when the
boat dropped astern, he stepped into it, selecting his place by the side
of the engineer, who had taken the tiller lines. The boat pulled away
at once, with four hands at the oars, and Mr. Graines headed it to the
north-east by the compass, the side lights of which were covered so that
they should not betray the approach of the boat to the shore, if any one
was there.

On the way Christy gave the men full instructions in regard to their
conduct; and in less than an hour the party landed.




CHAPTER III

A BIVOUAC NEAR FORT MORGAN


The expedition landed about two miles east of Fort Morgan. The sea was
not heavy, as it sometimes is on these sand islands, and the debarkation
was effected without any difficulty. At this distance from the defences
of the bay not a person was to be seen. The fog banks still swept over
the waters of the gulf as during the latter part of the afternoon, and
if any number of persons had been near the shore, they could hardly have
been seen.

"We are all right so far, Mr. Graines," said Christy, as the bowmen
hauled up the boat on the beach.

"It is as quiet as a tomb in this vicinity," replied the engineer, as he
led the way to the shore.

"Now, my men, haul the boat out of the water. I think we need not use
any of our small force as boat-keepers, for we can hardly spare them for
this purpose, Mr. Graines," Christy proceeded very promptly.

"It does not look as though the boat, or anything else, would ever be
molested in this lonely locality," replied Graines, as the men lifted it
from the water.

"Now carry it back about half a cable from the shore," continued the
principal of the party. "If one or two strollers should happen this way,
they would not be able to put it into the water, though four men can
carry it very easily."

The whaleboat was borne to a spot indicated by the lieutenant, and left
as it had been taken from the surf. Everything in it was arranged in
order, so that it could be hastily put into the water if circumstance
demanded a hurried retreat from the scene of operations. Near the spot
was a post set up in the sand, which might have been one of the corners
of a shanty, or have been used years before by fishermen drying their
nets or other gear.

"Do you see that post, my men?" asked Christy, as he pointed to it, not
twenty feet from the spot where the boat had been deposited.

"Ay, ay, sir!" the seamen responded, in low tones, for they had been
warned not to speak out loud.

"That will be your guide in finding the boat if we should get
scattered," added the officer. "Now, do you see the two stars about
half way between the horizon and the zenith?"

"Ay, ay, sir!" answered Weeks, the oiler. "The Band of Orion."

"Quite right, Weeks," added Christy. "Fort Morgan lies about west of
us; and a course from there in the direction of the two stars will bring
you to the coast and the boat. Every man must act for himself to some
extent, and you are expected to be prudent, and use your own judgment.
It will not be safe for us to keep together, for a dozen men seen all at
once would be likely to awaken suspicion."

"If there is not a crowd of men over by the fort, we can hardly expect
to avoid coming together," suggested Weeks, who proved to be a very
intelligent man, with excellent judgment.

"I cannot tell whether or not we shall find any gathering of men in the
vicinity of the fort," replied Christy. "We shall be obliged to govern
ourselves according to circumstances. If you find any number of people
over there, you can mingle with them. Some of you are very good
scholars; but if any of you are disposed to indulge in fine talk, don't
do it. Make your speech correspond with your dress, and let it be rough
and rude, for that is the fashion among the laboring class in this
region."

"I suppose sea-slang will not be out of order," said Weeks.

"Not at all. Simply consider that you are sailors and laborers, and
do not forget it," answered Christy; and he was confident that he had
selected only those who were competent to conduct themselves as the
occasion might require. "Now, Mr. Graines, tell off five men--any five."

The engineer called off five of the seamen, whose names he had learned
from the list given him by his superior officer.

"Now these five men will each choose his partner, who is to be his
companion while we are on shore, and who is to act with him," continued
Christy. "I do not know yet any better than you do what you are to do;
but if you are called upon to do any difficult or dangerous work,
remember that you are American seamen, and do your best for your
country. If you are required to do any fighting, as I do not expect you
will, our success depends upon your strong arms and your ready wills.
You will do your whole duty, whatever it may be, and do it like true
American sailors."

"Ay, ay, sir!" came in a unanimous voice from the knot of men, though in
subdued tones.

"Call the first name again, Mr. Graines," added Christy.

"Weeks," replied the engineer.

"Select your man, Weeks."

"Bingham," said the oiler.

The names of the other four men who had been selected were called in
turn, and each of them selected his partner, each one of course choosing
his best friend, if he had not already been appropriated.

"Now, my men, Weeks and Bingham, the first couple, to be called simply
'One' when wanted, and they will answer to this designation, will start
first. The next couple, to be called 'Two,' will follow them; and so on,
the other pairs coming in order," continued Christy, designating each by
name and number. "Two will start in ten or fifteen minutes after One, as
nearly as you can guess at the time, for it is too dark to see watches
if you have them."

"Are we to choose our own courses?" asked Weeks.

"No; I was coming to that next. Each couple will stroll due north us
nearly as he can make it out, till they come to the waters of Mobile
Bay. If you see any houses or tents, avoid them, and keep clear of any
collection of people before you reach the vicinity of the fort. The bay
is the first point you are to reach; then follow the shore to the fort.
If you meet any person, talk to him in a friendly way, if necessary, and
be as good Confederates as any in this region, even inside of Fort
Morgan."

Weeks and Bingham took up the line of march in the direction indicated,
and soon disappeared beyond the rising ground in the middle of the neck
of land, which was here about three-eighths of a mile wide. A quarter of
an hour later Lane and McGrady followed them. While they were waiting,
each of the pairs gave a specimen of the dialect they intended to use.
McGrady was an Irishman, educated in the public schools of the North,
and his language was as good as that of any ordinary American; but now
he used a very rich brogue.

Every man followed his own fancy. Lane had lived in the South, and
"mought" and "fotch" came readily to his aid. The Crackers of Florida,
the backwoodsmen of North Carolina, the swaggering Kentuckian, the wild
Texan, were all represented; and Christy could easily have believed he
had a company of comedians under his command, instead of a band of loyal
Northerners.

The executive officer and the engineer had decided before this time to
keep together; and, as soon as they had seen the second couple depart,
they set out on their wandering march to the fort in a direction
different from that of the others of the party. They walked directly
towards the fort, for Christy intended to make his examination of the
ground to the eastward of the fortification, on his way to some spot
where he could ascertain what vessels were at anchor between the point
and the Middle Ground. He discharged this duty very faithfully; and
before he reached his objective point he was confident he could draw a
map of the region, with what information he had obtained before, which
would meet the requirements of Captain Breaker.

"What's that?" demanded Graines, suddenly placing his hand on the arm of
his companion, and stopping short, as they were approaching the crown of
the elevation.

A fire was burning on the ground in a depression of the surface, which
doubtless concealed its light from persons in the vicinity of the fort,
if there were any there. Around it could be seen four men, as the two
officers looked over the crest of the hill, who appeared to be engaged
in eating and drinking; and they were doing more of the latter than of
the former, for the bottle passed very frequently from one to another.

"It looks like a bivouac on the part of those fellows," said Christy in
a low tone.

"But who and what are they?" asked Graines.

"They may be deserters from Fort Morgan, though if they were they would
hardly bivouac so near it," replied Christy, who did not seem to his
companion to be at all disturbed by the discovery of the men. "They are
more likely to be sailors from some intending blockade-runner at anchor
off the point, who have come on shore to make a night of it; and they
appear to have made considerable progress in the debauch."

"They are not soldiers, for you can see by the light of the fire that
they are not dressed in uniform," added the engineer.

"This is the third year of the war, and uniforms for the soldiers are
not particularly abundant in the Confederacy."

"We can't see the waters of the bay till we reach the top of the knoll
yonder, and we don't know whether there are any vessels at anchor there
or not. But we can easily avoid these fellows by keeping behind the
ridge till we get where they cannot see us."

"I don't know that we want to avoid them, for I should like very much
to know who and what they are. They must be tipsy to a greater or less
degree by this time, for they do twice as much drinking as eating,"
answered Christy, as he advanced a little way farther up the hill. "They
have a basket of food, and I do not believe they are mere tramps. They
are more likely to be engaged in some occupation which brought them to
this point, and I think we had better fraternize with them. They may be
able to give us some valuable information; and it looks as though they
were drunk enough to tell all they know without making any difficulty
about it."

"Do you think it is quite prudent, Mr. Passford, to approach them?"
asked the engineer.

"When we come on an excursion of this kind we have to take some risk.
If I were alone I should not hesitate to join them, and take my chances,
for they must know something about affairs in this vicinity," replied
Christy in a quiet tone, so that his answer might not be interpreted as
a boast or a reproach to his companion.

"I am ready to follow you, Mr. Passford, wherever you go, and to depend
upon your judgment for guidance," said Graines very promptly. "If it
comes to a fight with those fellows, I beg you to understand that I will
do my full share of it, and obey your orders to the letter."

"Of course I have no doubt whatever in regard to your courage and your
readiness to do your whole duty, Mr. Graines," added Christy, as he led
the way to the summit of the elevation. "Now lay aside your grammar and
rhetoric, and we must be as good fellows as those bivouackers are making
themselves. We are simply sailors who have just escaped from a captured
blockade-runner."

"I don't see anything around the fire that looks like muskets," said the
engineer, as they descended from the elevation.

"I see nothing at all except the provision-basket and the bottles,"
replied Christy.

"But they may be armed for all that."

"We must take our chances. They are so busy eating and drinking that
they have not seen us yet. Perhaps we had better be a little hilarious,"
continued the lieutenant, as he began to sing, "We won't go home till
morning," in which he was joined by his companion as vigorously as the
circumstances would permit.

Singing as they went, and with a rolling gait, they approached the
revellers.




CHAPTER IV

THE REVELATIONS OF THE REVELLERS


"'We won't go home till morning,'" sang the two counterfeit revellers,
as they approached the fire of the bivouackers.

The four carousel's sprang to their feet when the first strain reached
their ears. They were not as intoxicated as they might have been, for
they were able to stand with considerable firmness on their feet, after
the frequency with which the bottle had been passed among them. They did
not do what soldiers would naturally have done at such an interruption,
grasp their muskets, and it was probable they had no muskets to grasp.

"'We won't go home till morning, till daylight doth appear,'" continued
the two officers, without halting in their march towards the revellers.

  [Illustration: "The two counterfeit revellers." Page 48.]

No weapons of any kind were exhibited; but the tipplers stood as though
transfixed with astonishment or alarm where they had risen, but were
rather limp in their attitude. They evidently did not know what to make
of the interruption, and they appeared to be waiting for further
developments on the part of the intruders.

"It isn't mornin' yit, but we just emptied our bottle," said Christy,
with a swaggering and slightly reeling movement, and suiting his speech
to the occasion. "How are ye, shipmates?"

"Up to G, jolly tars," replied one of the men, with a broad grin on his
face. "We done got two full bottles left, at your sarvice."

"Much obleeged," returned the lieutenant, as he took the bottle the
reveller passed to him. "Here's success to us all in a heap, and success
to our side in the battle that's go'n' on."

"I'm with you up to the armpits," added Graines, as another of the four
handed him a bottle.

One sniff at the neck of the bottle was enough to satisfy Christy, who
was a practical temperance man of the very strictest kind, and he had
never drank a glass of anything intoxicating in all his life. The bottle
contained "apple-jack," or apple-brandy, the vilest fluid that ever
passed a tippler's gullet. He felt obliged to keep up his character,
taken for the occasion, and he retained the mouth of the bottle at his
lips long enough to answer the requirement of the moment; but he did not
open them, or permit a drop of the nauseous and fiery liquor to pollute
his tongue. It was necessary for him to consider that he was struggling
for the salvation of his beloved country to enable him even to go
through the form of "taking a drink."

Graines was less scrupulous on the question of temperance, and he took a
swallow of the apple-jack; but that was enough for him, for he had never
tasted anything outside of the medicine-chest which was half as noxious.
If he had been compelled to keep up the drinking, he would have realized
that his punishment was more than he could bear. Fortunately the
tipplers had no tumblers, so that the guests were not compelled to pour
out the fluid and drink it off. All drank directly from the bottles,
so that the two officers could easily conceal in the semi-darkness the
extent of their indulgence.

"Who be you, strangers?" asked the man who had acted thus far as
spokesman of the party.

"My name is Tom Bulger, born and brought up in the island of Great
Abaco, and this feller is my friend and shipmate, Sam Riley," replied
Christy, twisting and torturing his speech as much as was necessary.
"Now who be you fellers?"

"Born and fetched up in Mobile: my name is Bird Riley; and I reckon
t'other feller is a first cousin of mine, for he's got the same name,
and he's almost as handsome as I am. Where was you born, Sam?"

"About ten miles up the Alabama, where my father was the overseer on a
plantation before the war," replied Graines as promptly as though he had
been telling the truth.

"Then you must be one of my cousins, for I done got about two hundred
and fifty on 'em in the State of Alabammy. Give us your fin, Sam."

Bird Riley and Sam shook hands in due and proper form, and the
relationship appeared to be fully established. The names of the three
other revellers were given, but the spokesman was disposed to do all the
talking, though he occasionally appealed to his companions to approve
of what he said. It was evident that he was the leading spirit of the
party, and that he controlled them. He was rather a bright fellow, while
the others were somewhat heavy and stupid in their understanding. The
bottles were again handed to the guests, both of whom went through the
form of drinking without taking a drop of the vile stuff.

"What be you uns doin' here?" asked Bird Riley, after the ceremony with
the bottle had been finished.

"We was both tooken in a schooner that was gwine to run the blockade,"
answered Christy. "We was comin' out'n Pass Christian, and was picked
up off Chand'leer [Chandeleur] Island, and fotched over hyer. We didn't
feel too much to hum after we lost our wages, and we done took a
whaleboat and came ashore here, with only one bottle of whiskey atween
us. That's all there is on't. Now, how comes you uns hyer?"

"I'm the mate of the topsail schooner West Wind, and t'others is the
crew; all but two we done left on board with the cap'n," replied Bird,
apparently with abundant confidence in his newly found friends.

"You left her?" asked Christy.

"That's just what we done do."

"Where is the West Wind now?" inquired Christy, deeply interested in the
subject at this point.

"She done come down from Mobile three days ago, and done waited for a
chance to run the blockade. Her hole is full o' cotton, and she done got
a deck-load too," answered Bird Riley without any hesitation.

"Where does the West Wind keep herself now, Bird?"

"Just inside the p'int, astern of the Trafladagar."

"The Trafladagar?" repeated Christy.

"That's her name, or sunthin like it. I never see it writ out."

"She's a schooner, I reckon," continued Christy, concealing what
knowledge he possessed in regard to the vessel.

"She ain't no schooner, you bet; she's jest the finist steamer that ever
runned inter Mobile, and they've turned her into a cruiser," Bird Riley
explained.

"How big is she?"

"I heerd some un say she was about eight hun'ed tons: an' I'll bet
she'll pick up every Yankee craft that she gits a sight on."

"And you say the Trafladagar is at anchor off the p'int?" added Christy,
not daring to call the steamer by her true name.

"That's jest where she is; and the West Wind is hitched to her, like a
tandem team," replied Bird Riley. "Look yere, Tom Bulger, you don't make
love to that bottle as though you meant business. Take another drink,
and show you done got some manhood in yer."

The bottle went the rounds again, and the guests apparently took long
pulls; but really they did not taste a drop of the infernal liquid.

"That's good pizen, Bird Riley; but it is not jest the stingo that I
like best," said Christy, as he wiped his mouth with his sleeve in
proper form, for he did not like the smell of the fluid lightning that
clung to his lips.

"Whiskey suits me most; but they waste the corn makin' bread on't, and
there ain't much on't left to make the staff of life. Howsomever, we
don't choke to death on apple-jack, when we can get enough on't," argued
Bird Riley.

"Jest now you got a tandem team hitched up out on the Trafladagar and
the West Wind," continued Christy cautiously, and with apparent
indifference, drawing the mate of the schooner back to the matter in
which he was the most deeply interested. "What's this team hitched up
that way for? Is the steamer go'n' to tow the schooner up to Mobile?"

"I reckon you're a little more'n half drunk, Tom Bulger," replied Bird
Riley, with a vigorous horse laugh. "Tow the schooner up to Mobile!
Didn't I tell yer the Trafladagar's been waiting here three days for a
good chance to run out?"

"You said that as true as you was born," added Graines, who thought it
necessary to say something, for he had been nearly silent from the
beginning.

"Sam Riley ain't quite so drunk as you be, Tom Bulger; an' he knows
what's what; and thar he shows the Riley blood in his carcass," chuckled
the mate.

"And you said the West Wind was loaded with cotton, in the hole and on
deck," added Graines, hoping to hurry the conference along a little more
rapidly.

"That's jest what I said. I reckon you ain't much used to apple-jack,
fur it fusticates your intelleck, and makes yer forget how old y'are.
Come, take another, jest to set your head up right," said Bird, passing
the bottle to Christy, who was doing his best to keep up the illusion by
talking very thick, and swaying his body about like a drunken man.

Both the guests went through the ceremony of imbibing, which was only a
ceremony to them. The fire had exhausted its supply of fuel, and it was
fortunate that the darkness prevented the revellers from measuring the
quantity left in the bottles as they were returned to the owners, or
they might have seen that the strangers were not doing their share in
consuming the poison.

"Sam Riley does honor to the blood as runs in his body, for he ain't no
more drunk'n I am; an' he knows what we been talkin' about," said the
mate, who seemed to be greatly amused at the supposed effect of the
liquor upon Christy. "You won't know nothin' about the Trafladagar or
the West Wind in half an hour from now, Tom Bulger. I reckon it don't
make no difference to you about the tandem team, and to-morrer mornin'
you won't know how the team's hitched up."

"I don't think I will," replied Christy boozily, as he rolled over
on the sand, and then struggled for some time to resume his upright
position, to the great amusement of Bird Riley and his companions. "But
Sam Riley's got blood in him, the best blood in Alabammy, and he kin
tell you all about it if yer want ter know. He kin stan' up agin a whole
bottle o' apple-jack."

"I say, Cousin Bird, what's this tandem team hitched up fer?" asked
Graines, permitting his superior officer to carry out the illusion upon
which he had entered, in order more effectually to blind the mate, and
induce him to talk with entire freedom.

"I reckon you ain't too drunk to un'erstan' what I say, Sam, as t'other
feller is."

"I'm jest drunk enough to un'erstan' yer, Cousin Bird; but I cal'late I
won't know much about it by to-morrer mornin'," added Graines.

"Let's take another round, Sam; but I reckon Tom Bulger's got more'n he
can kerry now," continued the mate.

Bird took a long draught from the bottle, and then passed it to his
guest. Three of the four revellers had already toppled over at full
length on the ground; and Christy thought he could hurry matters by
doing the same thing, and he tumbled over all in a heap. Graines drank
nothing himself, though he contrived to spill a quantity of the fluid on
the ground, so that it might not seem too light to his only remaining
wakeful companion. The last dram of Bird had been a very heavy one, and
the engineer realized that he could not hold out much longer.

"What's that tandem team fer?" asked Graines, in the thickest of tones,
while he swayed back and forth as Bird was doing by this time.

"The Trafladagar's gwine to tow the West Wind out; and both on 'em's
sure to be tooken," stammered the mate. "We uns don't bleeve in't, and
so we runned away, and left Captain Sullendine to paddle his own punt.
They get off at three in the morn in'."

Bird Riley took another drink, and then he toppled over.




CHAPTER V

IN THE VICINITY OF THE CONFEDERATE FORT


It was a favorable night for running the blockade, for the fog had
settled down more densely upon the region in the vicinity of the ship
channel, though it occasionally lifted, and permitted those on board of
the Bellevite to see the tall tower of the Sand Island Lighthouse, which
had not been illuminated for three years. The mists were generally
thicker and remained longer towards daylight than at any other time, and
this was the evident reason why three o'clock in the morning had been
fixed upon for the departure of the Trafalgar and the West Wind in tow.

The engineer's head was as clear as it had ever been, notwithstanding
the tipsy swaying and doubling-up of his body which he simulated, and he
realized that his companion and himself had obtained very important
revelations from the revellers. The hour at which the steamer was to
leave, evidently by arrangement with the officers of the fort, was
valuable knowledge, and he hoped they would be able to carry or send
seasonable warning of the time to the Bellevite, for she was the only
ship on the blockade that could be counted upon to overhaul the
Trafalgar, if the reports of her great speed had been correctly given.

Both Christy and Graines had listened attentively to the revelations
of Bird Riley; but neither of them could understand why the four men,
including the mate, had deserted the West Wind only a few hours before
she was to depart on her voyage to Nassau, where she was believed to be
bound. The reason assigned by the tipsy mate was that she was going out
in tow of the steamer, and was sure to be taken by the blockaders. Both
of the listeners thought this fact improved her chances of getting clear
of any possible pursuers.

Bird Riley had fallen back on the ground; but he still continued to
talk, though his speech was very nearly incoherent. Graines was very
anxious to know what time it was, for the most important part of the
enterprise was to give the Bellevite timely notice of the coming of the
Trafalgar. He struck a match and lighted a cigar, offering one to the
mate, which he took and lighted. It was half-past twelve by his watch,
as he informed Bird, though he did so more for the information of the
lieutenant than of the mate.

"I reckon we are all about full enough to go to sleep, and we might as
well turn in," said Graines. "But I suppose you uns mean to sleep on
board of the West Wind."

"I don't reckon we'll do nothin' o' that sort," hiccoughed the mate. "We
done got a p'int to kerry, and I reckon we're gwine to kerry it."

"All right," gobbled the engineer, who overdid his part, if anything.
"What's the p'int, shipmate?"

"Cap'n Sull'dine's sho't handed," replied the mate, his speech turning
somersets as he labored to utter the words, for he still had a portion
of his senses left.

"I see," added Graines, tumbling over, but regaining his
perpendicularity with a trying effort. "Only six men left after you four
done runned away."

"Six!" exclaimed Bird, raising himself up with a desperate struggle,
like a wounded hawk. "No six in it; only two left. He don't, can't no
how, go to sea with only two men. I'll pilot the schooner out by the
Belican Channel an' Mis'sip' Sound. Cap'n Sull'dine 'n' I fit over it,
an' I left, with most of the crew. Hah, ha, ha! He done got 'nuff on't!
Let's take a swigger, and then we gwine to go to sleep, like the rest on
'em."

With no little difficulty Bird Riley got the bottle to his lips, wasting
no little of the liquor in the operation. He was entirely "full" then.
He handed the bottle to the engineer, and dropped over on his back,
overcome by his frequent potions. Graines did not find it necessary to
go through the form of putting the bottle to his lips again, and after
waiting a few minutes he was satisfied that the mate was in a deep
slumber, from which he was not likely to wake for several hours.

But all the information he appeared to be capable of giving had been
imparted, and Graines rose to his feet as steady as he ever was in his
life, having taken hardly a swallow of the repulsive poison. He walked
away from the sleeping group on the ground, halting about twenty feet
from them. Christy saw him, for his eyes were open all the time, and he
had listened with intense interest to the conversation between the
engineer and the mate of the West Wind.

The lieutenant straightened himself up and looked about him. The fire
was entirely extinguished; the four men lay with their feet to the
embers, and not one of them showed any signs of life. Carefully raising
himself to his feet, so as not to disturb the sleeper nearest to him, he
crept away to the spot where his associate awaited him. Christy led the
way in the direction of the fort, but both of them were silent till they
reached the summit of the knoll which concealed the inner bay from their
vision, or would have done so if the fog had not effectually veiled it
from their sight.

"I suppose you heard all that was said, Mr. Passford, after you ceased
to lead the conversation," said Graines, as he glanced back at the foot
of the hollow where the revel had taken place.

"Every word of it; and I could insert a good deal of what might have
been read between the lines if the talk had been written out," replied
the lieutenant. "As you were the cousin of the mate, he seemed to be
more communicative to you than to me, and I thought it best to leave you
to conduct the conversation. You did it extremely well, Charley, and
there was no occasion for me to interfere. I find that you have no
little skill as a detective, as well as a sailor and an engineer, and
I shall make a good report of you to Captain Breaker. I could almost
believe that we were boys together again as we were carrying on the
farce this evening."

"Thank you, Christy--Mr. Passford," added Graines.

"You need not stand on ship formalities while we are alone, Charley.
But we must put together the threads we have gathered this evening, and,
if I mistake not, we shall make a net of them, into which the Trafalgar,
or whatever her new name may be, will tumble at no very distant time. It
appears that she is not to tow out the West Wind, for Captain Sullendine
cannot go to sea with only two men before the mast, and no mate."

"Bird Riley played his cards very well to accomplish the purpose he had
in view, which was to keep the West Wind from going to sea in tow of the
steamer," replied Graines, keeping up with the lieutenant, who had taken
a very rapid pace.

"I should say that the schooner would have a much better chance to get
through the blockaders in tow of the Trafalgar than in going on her own
hook. Bird is a big fellow in his own estimation; but it struck me that
Captain Sullendine had an ignorant and self-willed fellow for a mate,
and probably he took the best one he could find; for I think good
seamen, outside of the Confederate navy, must be very scarce in the
South."

"The fellow had a notion in his head that he could take the schooner out
by Pelican Channel, and he quarrelled with the captain on this point.
It occurred to me that he deserted his vessel on account of the quarrel
rather than for any other reason."

"We need not bother our heads with that question, for it does not
concern us; and we will leave the captain and his mate to fight it out
when they meet to-morrow, for it is plain enough that the West Wind
cannot go to sea with no mate and only two hands before the mast,"
returned Christy, who was hastening forward to discharge what he
considered his first duty thus far developed by the events of the night.
"What time is it now, Charley? I have a watch, but no matches."

The engineer's cigar had gone out when he lighted it before, and he had
put it in a pocket of his sack coat. Putting it in his mouth, he struck
a match, and consulted his watch.

"Quarter of one, Christy; and we have plenty of time," he replied as
he lighted his cigar; for he thought it would help him to maintain his
indifference in whatever event might be next in order.

"But we have no time to spare," added the lieutenant, as he increased
the rapidity of his pace. "Our five pairs of men must have readied the
vicinity of the fort before this time, for we have had a long conference
with those spreeists."

"About an hour and a half; and the information we have obtained will
fully pay for the time used."

"No doubt of it; and we must hurry up in order to make a good use of
it," said Christy. "The fog is lifting just now, as it has been doing
all the evening, and we can see the fort. There are very few people
about; for it cannot be an uncommon event to see a blockade-runner get
under way."

It was not probable that any of the persons in sight were soldiers, for
they had abundant opportunity to see all there was to be seen within the
solid walls that sheltered them. The rapid pace at which the lieutenant
led his companion soon brought them to the group of people near the
shore of the channel leading to Pilot Town. The five pairs of seamen
were well scattered about, as they had been instructed to be, and they
did not appear to have attracted the attention of the others in the
vicinity.

Pair No. Three were the first of the party the officers encountered, and
no others appeared to be near them. One of them was smoking his pipe,
and both of them were taking it very easily. Not far from them was a
knot of men who seemed to be disturbed by some kind of an excitement.
As the couple encountered manifested no interest in the affair, Christy
concluded that they must know something about it, unless they were
extremely scrupulous in adhering to the orders given them.

"What is the row there, French?" asked Christy in a low and guarded
tone, though there was no stranger very near him.

"The man in the middle is the captain of that schooner you see off the
shore, sir. His mate and three of his crew have deserted the vessel, and
he can't go to sea without them," replied French.

"They say the steamer ahead is to tow the schooner out; but the captain
cannot go because he has only two men left," added Lines, the other man
of the pair.

"Do you know where to find Nos. One and Two?" continued the leader of
the expedition.

"I do not, sir; for we keep clear of each other, as we were ordered,"
answered French, as he looked about him for the men designated.

"You two will separate, and find One and Two. Send them to me, and I
will wait here for them," added Christy; and the men departed on the
errand. "While I am waiting for them, Mr. Graines, you may go down to
that group, and pick up what information you can."

The engineer sauntered down the declivity, smoking his cigar, and making
himself as much at home on the enemy's territory as though he had been
the commander of the Confederate fort. Christy was not kept long in
waiting, and the first pair that reported to him were Weeks and Bingham.
No. One. The former was the oiler who had been selected on account of
his ingenuity and good judgment by Graines.

"Are you a sailor as well as a machinist, Weeks?" asked Christy.

"I am not much of a sailor, sir, though I have handled a schooner.
I have been a boatman more or less of the time all my life," replied
the oiler modestly.

By this time No. Two, Lane and McGrady, reported, but French and Lines
kept their distance, in conformity with the spirit of their orders.

"Nos. One and Two will return to the whaleboat, and Weeks will be in
command of the party," continued Christy. "The rest of you will obey him
as your officer. Is this understood?"

"Ay, ay, sir," responded the three men.

"Weeks, you will carry the boat to the water, and return to the ship
with all possible haste. Inform Captain Breaker that the Trafalgar will
sail at three o'clock in the morning. I will report to him later."

The four men started off as though they meant to obey this order to the
letter.




CHAPTER VI

CAPTAIN SULLENDINE OF THE WEST WIND


Weeks and his companions divided up as they had been ordered to do in
coming to the fort, and departed in different directions. The lieutenant
pointed out to them the locality of the bivouac where he had passed so
much of the evening, so that they might avoid it. It was about one
o'clock in the morning when they left, and Christy calculated that
they would reach the ship in an hour and a half, which would give the
commander ample time to get up steam from the banked fires, and move
down four or five miles to the southward of his present position.

The chief of the expedition had sent no message to the captain of the
Bellevite in regard to his own movements, but simply that he would
report to him later. He had already grasped an idea, though he had had
no time to work it up in detail. It looked practicable to him, and he
had jumped to a conclusion as soon as he was in possession of the facts
covering the situation in the vicinity of Fort Morgan.

With only a plan not yet matured in his mind, perhaps he had been more
rash than usual in sending away the whaleboat before he had provided for
his own retreat from the enemy's territory; but he had considered this
difficulty, and had come to the conclusion that the Trafalgar must be
captured if possible, even if he and his associates were sent to a
Confederate prison.

But he did not anticipate any such result. He had three pairs of the
seamen left; and the party still consisted of eight men, all well armed.
If the plan he had considered should fail, he had force enough to carry
a light boat from Pilot Town, or any other point on the inner shore,
in which they could make their escape to the Bellevite or some other
blockader. He did not feel, therefore, that he had "burned his bridges,"
and left open no means of retreat in case of disaster.

Christy and Graines were left alone in the darkness and the fog, a bank
of which was just then sweeping over the point; but they could hear the
violent talk of Captain Sullendine in the distance, as he declaimed
against the perfidy of his mate and the three seamen just at the point
where he needed them most. Evidently he could not reconcile himself to
the idea of being left behind by the Trafalgar, which seemed to be
inevitable under present circumstances.

"The skipper of the West Wind seems to be in an ocean of trouble, and
he is apparently resolved not to submit to the misfortune which has
overtaken him," said Christy, as he led the way towards the knot of men
who were the auditors of the rebellious captain.

"He may jaw as much as he pleases, if it makes him feel any better, but
I don't see how he can help himself," replied Graines. "The schooner
looked like a rather large one when I got a sight of her just before I
came back to you, which I did as soon as I saw the four men leave you."

"I sent Weeks as a messenger to Captain Breaker, to inform him that the
Trafalgar would sail at three in the morning," added Christy.

"I concluded that was the mission upon which you sent him," replied the
engineer; and, whatever doubts the lieutenant's action might have raised
in his mind, he asked no questions.

Every man on board of the Bellevite was well acquainted with the
record and reputation of the executive officer; and he concluded at
once that Christy had already arranged his method of operations. It was
not "in good form" to ask his superior any questions in regard to his
intentions.

"Did you go down to the shore, Charley?" asked Christy, as they walked
in that direction.

"I did not, but I went far enough to hear what the captain of the West
Wind was talking about. I had no orders, and as soon as I saw the four
men leave you, I thought I had better rejoin you," answered Graines.

"Quite right," said the lieutenant as he halted; for they were as near
the group on the shore as it was prudent to go, for the fog was lifting.
"What did the captain say?"

"He offered ten dollars apiece for the recovery of the men who had
deserted, if they were brought back within two hours," replied Graines.
"He did an immense amount of heavy swearing; and it was plain that he
was mad all the way through, from the crown of his head to the sole of
his foot."

"Was any one inclined to accept his offer, and go in search of the
runaways?"

"I can't say, but I saw no one leave on that or any other mission. I was
there but a few minutes, and the fog dropped down on the party so that I
could not see them at all."

"We must join that assemblage, and we may be able to help Captain
Sullendine out of his dilemma," said Christy.

"Help him out of it!" exclaimed Graines.

"Not a word more, Charley. I have an idea or two left, but it is not
prudent to say a word about it here," replied the lieutenant cautiously.
"You know the cut of my jib in my present rig, and I want you to keep an
eye on me, for we must separate now. When you see me take off this old
soft hat with my left hand, and scratch my head with my right, moving
off a minute later, you will follow me. By that time I shall know what
we are to do."

"All right, Christy; I will follow the direction to the letter," added
Graines.

"While you go off to the left of that pile of rubbish yonder, I will
go to the right of it. If you speak to any of our men, do so with the
utmost caution."

"They have been down there some time, and they have full information in
regard to what is going on in this locality," suggested Graines.

"Use your own judgment, Charley, only be careful not to give us away,"
replied the lieutenant, as he moved towards the pile of rubbish.

A walk of a few minutes brought him to the group on the shore, which
consisted of not more than a dozen persons, and half of them belonged to
the Bellevite. Christy halted before he reached the assemblage, in order
to listen to the eloquence of the captain of the West Wind. He talked
very glibly; and it did not take his outside auditor long to perceive
that he had been drinking somewhat freely, though he was not what
non-temperance men would have called intoxicated.

"I use my men well, and give 'em enough to eat and drink, and what's
good enough," the nautical orator declaimed with a double-handed
gesture. "Why, my friends, I gave each of the villains that deserted
the schooner a bottle of apple-jack. I don't drink it myself, but it is
good enough for niggers and sailors; in fact, my men liked it better'n
whiskey, because it's stronger. They served me a mighty mean trick, and
I'll give ten dollars apiece to have 'em fetched back to me. That's a
good chance for some on you to make some money tonight."

His audience listened to him as they would have done to a preacher with
whom they had no sympathy, and no one was tempted by the reward to go in
search of the deserters. Christy moved up nearer to the speaker. In his
disguise, with his face smooched with some of the color he had received
as a present from Mr. Gilfleur, the French detective, with whom he had
been associated on his cruise some months before, he did not appear at
all different from most of those who listened to Captain Sullendine.
He had laid aside his gentlemanly gait and bearing, and acted as though
he had lately joined the "awkward squad."

"How d'e?" called the orator to him, as he saw him join the group of
listeners. "I see you come from the other side of the p'int."

"Well, is that agin the laws o' war?" demanded Christy.

"Not a bit on't," replied the captain pleasantly, as though his
potations of whiskey were still in full effect upon him. "If you come
from that way, have you seen anything of my four men that deserted the
schooner?"

"I wasn't lookin' for 'em; didn't know ye'd lost some men," replied
Christy, staring with his mouth half open at the orator. "Was one on
'em the mate?"

"Yes!" exclaimed the captain eagerly.

"Well, I hain't seen nothin' on em," added Christy in a mumbling tone.

"I'll bet you have!" protested the skipper of the West Wind. "How'd you
know one on 'em was the mate if you didn't see 'em?"

"I didn't know one on 'em was the mate; I only axed yer so's ter know."

"I reckon you know sunthin about my men," persisted the captain; and by
this time the attention of all the party had been directed to him.

"I don't know nothin' about yer men, and I hain't been interduced to
'em. If you want to ship a new crew, I'm ready to jine with yer."

"One man ain't enough," added the skipper.

"Some o' these men'll jine too, I reckon," suggested Christy, who
had proceeded in this manner in order to attract the attention of the
disconsolate master of the West Wind.

"I don't reckon they can ship, 'cause most on 'em belongs to the
Tallahatchie, and they can't leave."

"That's so," shouted several of the group, including some of the crew of
the Bellevite.

"What's the Talla-what-you-call-her?" demanded Christy.

"She's the steamer you can see when the fog lifts," answered Captain
Sullendine. "The Tallahatchie is her name. Are you a sailor, my lively
lad?"

"I reckon I know the bobstay from the mainmast."

"You know sumthin about my mate and men, my jolly tar, and I'll give you
five dollars apiece for any news on 'em that will help me to ketch 'em;
and I'll ship you into the bargain, for I want more hands," the captain
proceeded in a more business-like manner, though at the expense of his
oratory.

Just at this moment three short and sharp whistles sounded from off the
shore, and about half of the skipper's audience turned upon their heels
and walked down to the water, where they embarked in a boat. They were
evidently members of the ship's company of the Tallahatchie, on shore on
leave, and the whistles were the signal for their return. The remainder
of the group, with two or three exceptions, were the seamen of the
blockader.

"Where'd you come from, my hearty?" demanded the captain of the
schooner, turning to Christy again.

"I was tooken in a blockader, eight on us. We done stole a whaleboat and
comed ashore," replied Christy, enlarging upon the story he had told the
bivouackers.

"Eight on you!" exclaimed the master of the schooner. "Where's the rest
on ye?"

"They're all about here somewhar, and I reckon I kin find em. They're
lookin for sunthin t'eat. They all want to ship, and the mate of the
Rattler's one on 'em," continued Christy, guiding himself by the
circumstances as they were developed to him.

"What's your name, my man?"

"My name's Jerry Sandman; and I ain't ashamed on't."

"Are your men all sailors, Jerry?"

"Every one on 'em."

"I want eight good men, Jerry, the mate bein' one on 'em."

"Then we kin fix you like a 'possum in a hole."

"I've got two boats on the shore; the deserters stole one on 'em, and I
come ashore in t'other arter 'em. I reckon I'll get a steamer in Nassau,
and I want all the good men I can find to man her. I'll ship the whole
on you. Find your men, Jerry, and fetch 'em down to the boats. I'll give
'em all sumthin t'eat. Now be lively about it," said Captain Sullendine,
as he walked away towards the shore.

"I'll find 'em in no time," replied Christy, as he removed his soft hat
with his left hand, and scratched his head with the other.

The rest of the party scattered, and Graines joined the lieutenant.




CHAPTER VII

A POWERFUL ALLY OF THE BELLEVITERS


The seamen of the Bellevite had listened with intense interest to the
conversation between the commander of the West Wind and the lieutenant;
and there was not a single one of them who did not comprehend the
purpose of the chief of the expedition. They were greatly amused at the
manner in which Christy conducted himself, and especially at the mongrel
dialect he had used. It was a little difficult for them to realize that
the awkward fellow who was in conversation with the skipper of the
schooner was the gentlemanly, well-spoken officer they had been
accustomed to see on the quarter-deck of the Bellevite.

They separated as they had been instructed to do; but they were careful
not to go to any great distance from the spot, for they understood that
they should be wanted in a few minutes. Graines had not spoken a word on
this occasion, though he had done most of the talking at the bivouac.
He was ready to do his part; but the skipper had addressed his companion
first, introducing the subject, and he had no opportunity to get in a
single word.

"I suppose you understand it all, Charley," said Christy as soon as they
were alone.

"I could not very well have helped doing so if I had tried. The only
thing that bothered me was when you appeared to be betraying yourself
by alluding to the mate," replied Graines.

"I did not do that by accident; but I desired to get the whole attention
of the captain, and I got it. The rest all followed in due course. Now
tell all the men to go down to the shore, and wait a little distance
from the two boats till you and I join them. Tell them all to be hungry.
Your name is Mr. Balker, the mate of the Rattler, the blockade-runner
from which we escaped in a whaleboat. My name is Jerry Sandman, the
second mate, for the want of a better. Tell them not to forget any of
these names," continued Christy.

"They heard the whole story, and they were deeply interested in it, for
they could not help seeing what was coming," added the engineer, as he
went to carry out the order he had just received.

The seamen still kept together in pairs, and Graines instructed them by
twos, impressing them with the necessity of remembering the names they
had heard in the lieutenant's story, which was a "story" in the double
sense of the word. As each couple received their lesson, they sauntered
in the direction of the shore.

"What's going to be done, Mr. Graines?" asked French, who was one of the
second pair the engineer instructed.

"That is none of your business, French. You are to remember the names I
have given you, and then obey orders," replied Graines rather sharply,
for it was a very unusual thing for a seaman, or even an officer, to ask
such a question of his superior; and the discipline of the Bellevite was
as exacting as it was kind and fatherly.

"Excuse me, Mr. Graines; I only wanted to be ready for whatever was
coming," pleaded French.

"Excused; but don't ask such questions. You listened to the conversation
between your officer and the captain of the schooner; and if you cannot
comprehend the meaning of it, ask Lines, and he will explain it," added
the engineer, "Where are Londall and Vogel?"

"Right by that pile of rubbish, sir," replied French, as he led the way
to the shore.

The last pair were instructed and sent with the others, and they asked
no questions. Graines joined the lieutenant, who had seated himself on a
log, and reported that all was going on right.

"As I said before, Charley, you will be the mate of the Rattler, and
will no doubt be engaged for the same position on board of the West
Wind. I will ship as second mate, if one of the two men now on board of
the vessel is not shipped as such, for I wish to be among the men," said
Christy, after looking about him to see that no one was within hearing
distance of them.

"I take it I shall not make a long voyage as mate," replied Graines.

"Probably not, though I cannot tell how long you will have to serve in
that capacity. I purpose to have the Tallahatchie tow the schooner as
far down as practicable; but we shall doubtless have business on our
hands before it is time to cut the towline. Now we will wait upon the
captain."

They found him walking up and down the shore, apparently somewhat
excited; and doubtless he had not entire confidence in the promises of
"Jerry Sandman." The six seamen had not joined Captain Sullendine on the
shore, but had placed themselves behind a coal shanty quite near the
water.

"I've brought the mate down, Cap'n Sull'dine," Christy began, as he and
the engineer halted in front of the master of the schooner. "Here he is,
an' I reckon there ain't no better sailor in the great Confed'racy. This
yere is Mr. Balker."

"How are ye, Mr. Balker? You are just the man I want more'n I want my
supper. Now tell me something about yourself."

Graines invented a story suited to the occasion. Then the conversation
was about wages; and the candidate haggled for form's sake, but finally
accepted the lay the captain offered.

"By the way, Captain Sullendine, do you happen to have a second mate?"
asked the engineer when the terms were arranged.

"I had one; but he run away with Bird Riley. He wa'n't good for nothin',
and I'm glad he's gone," replied the skipper.

"The man you talked with is Jerry Sandman, and he was the other mate of
the Rattler. He isn't a showy fellow, but he was a first-class second
mate," continued Graines.

"Then I ship him as second mate;" and they arranged the wages without
much difficulty.

The six seamen were promptly shipped. The whole party then embarked in
the two boats, Captain Sullendine dividing them into two parties for the
purpose. The fog had settled down very densely upon the shore; but the
West Wind was easily found, and they went on board, where one boat was
hoisted up to the stern davits, and the other on the port quarter.

"Here you be, Mr. Balker," said Captain Sullendine when the party
reached the quarter-deck; and he was so lively in his movements, and
so glib in his speech, as to provoke the suspicion that he had imbibed
again at the conclusion of his oration on shore. "Here, you, Sopsy!"
he continued in a loud voice.

A lantern was burning on the companion, which enabled the party to see
that the waist of the vessel was compactly packed with bales of cotton.
The schooner seemed to be of considerable size, and Christy thought she
must be loaded with a very large cargo of the precious merchandise. In
answer to the captain's call, Sopsy, who proved to be the negro cook of
the vessel, presented himself.

"All these people want something to eat, Sopsy. Let the crew eat in
the deck-house for'ad, and bring a lunch into the cabin right off,"
continued Captain Sullendine.

"Yis, sar," replied the cook with emphasis. "Git 'em quicker'n a man kin
swaller his own head. Libes dar a man wid soul so dead"--

"Never mind the varse, Sopsy," interposed the captain.

"--As never to hisself have said"--

"Hurry up, Sopsy!"

"He don't say dat, Massa Cap'n," added the cook, as he shuffled off over
the bales of cotton.

"Hullo there, Bokes! Where are you, Bokes?" called the captain again.

"On deck, Cap'n," replied a white man, crawling out from a small opening
in the bales.

"Wake up, Bokes! You ain't dead yet."

"No, sir; wide awake's a coon in a hencoop," added the man, who appeared
to be one of the two left on board by the deserters, the cook being the
other.

"Be alive, Bokes! Here, wait a minute!" and the captain ran down the
companion ladder to the cabin, from which he presently appeared with
a bottle in each hand. "Do you see them men on the cotton, Bokes?" he
asked, pointing with one of them at the six Belleviters, who stood where
they had taken their stations after hoisting up the quarter-boat.

"I see sunthin over thar," replied the seaman, who seemed to be hardly
awake yet.

"Them's the new crew I shipped to-night--six on 'em, or seven with the
second mate," added the captain. "Show 'em over to the deck-house, and
let 'em pick out their bunks."

"Seven on 'em; the cook and me makes nine, and they ain't but eight
berths in the deck-house, Cap'n," replied Bokes, who seemed to be afraid
of losing his own sleeping quarters.

"You can sleep on the deck, then. These are all good men, and they must
have good berths," added the captain. "You can sleep as well in the
scuppers as anywhere else, Bokes; and you ain't more'n half awake any
time."

"Must have my berth, Cap'n, or I go ashore," persisted the seaman.

"Small loss anyhow," growled the captain.

"How is the cabin, Captain Sullendine?" interposed Graines.

"Two staterooms and four berths," replied the master.

"Then why can't the second mate take one of the berths in the cabin?"
suggested the new mate. "He is a first-rate fellow, and I reckon he's a
better sailor than I am, for he's been to sea about all his life."

"'Tain't reg'lar to have the second mate in the cabin. He'll have t'eat
with us if he bunks there," argued the master.

"He'll have to keep his watch on deck when we eat, and I reckon he'll
have to take his grub alone," reasoned the mate.

"I'd ruther live in the deck-house with the crew," said Christy.

"But there ain't no room thar," added Graines, who thought his superior
had made the remark simply to keep up his character.

"Let him come into the cabin, then," said Captain Sullendine, in order
to settle the question. "Now, Bokes, take this apple-jack, and show the
other six to the deck-house. Give 'em one or two drinks all round. It'll
do 'em good."

Bokes obeyed the order, after the master had lighted another lantern for
his use, and he went over the bales of cotton to the seamen.

Captain Sullendine remarked with great complacency that he always
treated his men well, gave them enough to eat and drink, and he thought
the apple-jack he had sent them would do them good. He liked to be
liberal with his crew, for he believed a tot of grog would go further
with them than "cussin' 'em;" and the two mates did not gainsay him,
though they believed in neither grog nor "cussin'."

Though Christy never drank a drop of intoxicating fluid under any
circumstances, and Graines almost never, both of them believed that
"apple-jack" had been a very serviceable ally during the night so far.
Rut they considered it useful only in the hands of the enemy, and they
were sorry to see the bottles sent forward for the use of Belleviters;
for they were afraid some of them might muddle and tangle their brains
with the fiery liquor.

"Come, mates, let's go down into the cabin now," continued the captain,
descending the ladder without waiting for them.

"I will go forward for a few minutes, Charley," whispered Christy in the
ear of the engineer, who followed the captain below.

When the lieutenant reached the deck-house he found the men there, with
Bokes in the act of taking a long pull at one of the bottles, while
French was holding the other.

"Here's the second mate," said the seaman with the bottle.

"You can keep the bottle you have, Bokes," said Christy. "Now go aft
with it." The sleepy sailor was willing enough to obey such a welcome
order, and the lieutenant took the other bottle to the side and emptied
it into the water. The men did not object, and the new second mate
joined the master in the cabin.




CHAPTER VIII

ON BOARD OF THE COTTON SCHOONER


Probably some, if not all, of the six men in the deck-house of the West
Wind were in the habit of taking intoxicating liquors when they were
ashore, and when it was served out on board of the ship in conformity
with the rules and traditions of the navy. The commander and his
executive officer labored for the promotion of total abstinence among
the officers and crew. More than the usual proportion of the men
commuted their "grog ration" for money, through the influence of the
principal officers.

While the commander of the present expedition accepted the aid of the
powerful ally, "apple-jack," in the service of his country, drinking
freely appeared to him to be about the same thing as going over to the
enemy; and he could not permit his men to turn traitors involuntarily,
when he knew they would not do so of their own free will and accord.
He had settled the liquor question to his own satisfaction in the
deck-house, returning the bottle to French.

When Graines went below, a minute or two later than Captain Sullendine,
he saw his new superior in the act of tossing off another glass of
whiskey, as he concluded it was from the label on the bottle which stood
on the cabin table. He had been considerably exhilarated before, and he
was in a fair way to strengthen the ally of the loyalists by carrying
his powerful influence to the head of the commander of the intending
blockade-runner. The captain seated himself at the table, and Christy
saw that he had a flat bottle in his breast-pocket.

"Now, Mr. Balker, we had better seal up the bargain we've made with
forty drops from this bottle," said he, as he poured out a glass for
himself, regardless of the fact that he had just indulged; and at the
same time he pushed the bottle and another glass towards the new mate.

Graines covered the lower part of the glass with his hand, and poured
a few drops into it. Putting some water with it from the pitcher, he
raised the tumbler in imitation of the captain.

"Here's success to the right side," added the master, as he drank off
the contents of the glass.

"I drink that toast with all my mind, heart, and soul," added the
engineer, with decided emphasis, though he knew that "the right side"
did not always convey the same idea.

"Help yourself, Mr.-- I've forgot your name, Second Mate," he added as
he moved towards the companion ladder.

"Jerry Sandman, sir, and I will help myself to what I want," replied
Christy.

"That's right, Mr. Sandman; make yourself at home in this cabin. I must
go on deck and take a look at the Tallahatchie," added the master as he
went up the ladder, followed by Graines.

The lieutenant helped himself to a glass of water, after rinsing
the tumbler, for that was what he wanted. Sopsy the cook immediately
appeared, bearing a tray on which were several dishes of eatables, bread
and ham being the principal. The bottle was in his way; and after he had
drunk off half a tumblerful of its contents, he removed it to the
pantry. He proceeded to set the table.

"Oft in der chizzly night, 'fore slumber's yoke hab tooken me," hummed
Sopsy as he worked at the table.

"Where is this schooner bound, Sopsy?" asked Christy.

"Bound to dat boon whar no trab'ler returns," replied the cook, pausing
in his occupation and staring the second mate full in the face.

"That bourn is Nassau, I reckon," laughed the lieutenant.

"I s'pose she's gwine dar if she don't go to dat boon where no trab'lers
come back agin," answered Sopsy seriously. "Be you Meth'dis' o'
Bab'tis', Massa Mate?"

"Both, Sopsy."

"Can't be bof, Massa."

"Then I'm either one you like."

"That ain't right, Massa Secon' Mate, 'cordin' as you was brung up,"
said the cook, shaking his head violently, as though he utterly
disapproved of the mate's theology.

"I'm a theosophist, Sopsy."

"A seehossofist!" exclaimed the cook, dropping a plate in his
astonishment. "We don't hab none o' dem on shore in de Souf. I reckon
dey libs in de water."

"No; they live on the mountains."

"We hain't got no mount'ns down here, and dat's de reason we don't
hab none on 'em," added Sopsy as he went to the pantry; but presently
returned with a plate of pickles in one hand and the whiskey bottle in
the other. "Does dem sea-hosses drink whisker, Massa Secon' Mate?"

"They never drink a drop of it."

"Dis colored pusson ain't no sea-hoss, and he do drink whiskey when
he kin git it," added the cook; and he half filled a tumbler with the
contents of the bottle, and drank it off at a single gulp.

He had hardly placed it on the table in the middle of the dishes before
the captain came below. His first step was to take a liberal potation
from the bottle. As he raised it to the swinging lamp, he discovered
that the fluid had been freely expended in his absence.

"You've punished this bottle all it deserves," said he when he perceived
that its level had been considerably lowered, and he did not ask the new
officer to join him. "That's all right, Mr. Sandman; but I don't want
you to take more than you can manage to-night, for we have a big job on
our hands, and we want our heads where we shall be able to find them.
Now go on deck, and learn what you can about the vessel, for we hain't
got but half an hour more before the Tallahatchie goes to sea. We may
have lots of music after we get outside; but I reckon our steamer can
outsail anything the Yankees have got on the blockade. Don't drink no
more, Mr. Sandman; and when we git to Nassau you can have a reg'lar
blowout."

"I won't touch another drop before we get out of the bay, Cap'n
Sullendine," protested Christy, without betraying the misdemeanor of
the cook, as doubtless it was.

"That's right, Mr. Sandman; we must all have our heads on our shoulders
to-night," said the captain, as he drank off the potion he had prepared.

Christy wished to hold the commander to his own advice; but that would
have been fighting on the wrong side for him, and Sopsy escaped a
reprimand, if not a kick or two, by his forbearance. By this time the
bottle was nearly empty; but the skipper put it under lock and key in
a closet, which seemed to be well filled with others like it. Christy
went on deck, in obedience to the order he had received, and found the
engineer on the quarter-deck buried in the fog, which was just then more
dense than at any time before.

"The captain's pretty well set 'up,' isn't he Christy?" said Graines in
a low tone.

"About half seas over; but he knows what he is about, though he took
another heavy potion just now," replied the lieutenant.

"All right; I think we can manage this craft very well without him,"
added Graines with a smile, which could not be seen in the darkness.

But the conversation was interrupted at this point by the appearance
of the cook, whose legs were more tangled up by his tipples than his
master's. He delivered the request of Captain Sullendine that they
should come into the cabin, and partake of the lunch which had been set
out for them. As they moved towards the companion, they saw Sopsy creep
over to the alley where Bokes had been sleeping, and take up the bottle
of apple-jack Christy had given him, and drink from it. It was evident
to them that the cook could not be much longer in condition for any
duty.

The two mates went below as invited, and found the captain at the table.
He had brought out the bottle of whiskey, and was eating of the dishes
before him, but plainly with little relish.

"Have another little drink, Mr. Balker; but I think Mr. Sandman had
better not take anymore," said the master, whose speech was rather thick
by this time.

"Thank you, Captain Sullendine; I will do a little in that way, for we
are likely to have a very damp night of it," replied Graines, as he
helped himself, though he did not take ten drops.

"A little does one good; but it don't do to take too much when we
have very important business on our hands. After that one, Mr. Balker,
I advise you not to take any more till we get clear of the blockaders,"
added the skipper, as he emptied the bottle into his glass.

The ham on the table was of excellent quality, and the two mates ate
heartily of it, with the ship-bread. The last dose the captain had taken
appeared to cap the climax, and he could no longer eat, or talk so as to
be clearly understood. When the mates had finished their lunch, they saw
that the skipper had dropped asleep in his chair. They rose from their
places, and rattled the stools. The noise roused the sleeper, and he
sprang to his feet with a violent start.

"What's time'z it, Mr. Zbalker?" he demanded, catching hold of the table
to avoid falling on the cabin floor.

He seemed to be conscious that he was not presenting a perfectly regular
appearance to his new officers; and he dropped into his chair, making a
ludicrous effort to stiffen his muscles and put on his dignity, but it
was a failure.

"Quarter-past two, Captain Sullendine," replied Graines in answer to the
question.

"Most an hour more 'fore we git started," stammered the invalid.
"I didn't sleep none last night, I'm sleepy. I'm go'n to turn in for
half an hour, 'n then I'll be on deck ready for busi-- ready for
buzness."

Graines assisted him to his stateroom, for he could not walk, and he was
afraid he would fall and hurt himself. He helped him into his berth, and
arranged him so that he could sleep it off, and he did not care if he
did not do so before the next day. He waited till he had dropped off
into a deep slumber, and then joined Christy in the cabin.

"If I had not been a temperance man before, I should be now," said the
lieutenant. "It is just as well that the captain is clean over the bay,
for we might have been obliged to shoot him if he had been sober."

"But we could have taken possession of the vessel in spite of him, if
the steamer had not interfered," replied Graines, as he led the way to
the deck. "I don't see that we have anything to do but wait for the
moving of the waters, or for the moving of the steamer. I suppose our
men are all right forward."

"I have no doubt of it, though I have not seen them lately. I gave one
of the bottles of apple-jack the captain sent forward for them to Bokes,
and poured the contents of the other into Mobile Bay. I think we had
better go forward and look the vessel over," said Christy.

They had gone but a few steps before they stumbled over the body of
Sopsy, who had evidently succumbed to the quantity of firewater he had
consumed. He had assisted Bokes to empty the bottle given to him, and
both of them were too far gone to give an alarm if they discovered at
any time that something was wrong about the movements of the West Wind.

They found the Belleviters lounging about on the cotton bales, some of
them asleep, and others carrying on a conversation in a low tone. They
were glad to see their officers, who told them the time for some sort of
action was rapidly approaching. Then they went to the bow of the vessel,
where they found that she was anchored, though the chain had been hove
short. The hawser by which she was to be towed to sea was made fast to
the bowsprit bitts, and led to the stern of the steamer, where it was
doubtless properly secured.

While they were looking over the bow, a boat approached from the
Tallahatchie, and an officer hailed, asking for Captain Sullendine.

"He is in the cabin; I am the mate," replied the engineer, "and the
captain has shipped a new crew, we are all right now."

"Weigh your anchor at three short whistles," added the officer.

"Understood, and all right," said the new mate.

The boat pulled back to the steamer.




CHAPTER IX

THE DEPARTURE OF THE TALLAHATCHIE


The fog, which had been coming and going during the whole of the night,
had now lifted so that everything in the vicinity of the fort could be
seen; but across the point, down the ship channel, it was dense, dark,
and black. The wind was fresh from the south-west, which rolled up the
fog banks, and then rolled them away. Such was the atmospheric condition
near Mobile Point, and Christy believed it was the same at the
southward. He thought it probable that the commander of the Tallahatchie
would wait for a more favorable time than the present appeared to be
before he got under way.

"All hands to the forecastle," he called to the men on the cotton bales.

All of them, knowing his voice as well as they knew their own names,
hastened to answer to the call.

"We have to heave up the anchor with a windlass, Mr. Graines," said he
to the engineer. "We had better get the hang of it while we have time to
do so. Ship the handspikes, my men."

Doubtless all of them had worked a windlass before, for every one of
them was an able seaman, which had been one of the elements in their
selection, and they went to work very handily. A turn or two was given,
which started the vessel ahead, showing that the anchor was not hove
entirely short. Graines went to the bow, and reported a considerable
slant of the cable with the surface of the water. Christy ordered the
six seamen to work the windlass, with French to take in the slack. They
continued to heave over with the handspikes for some time longer.

"Cable up and down, sir," reported Graines.

"Avast heaving!" added the lieutenant; and he had taken the command,
paying no attention to the fact that he was the second mate under the
new order of things, and the engineer did not remind him that he was
the chief officer. "Let off the cable a couple of notches, so that the
anchor will not break out. Make fast to the bitts, French, but don't
foul it with the towline."

"We are all right now," said Graines, as he moved aft from the heel of
the bowsprit.

"What time is it now?" asked the lieutenant. "Bring that lantern
forward, Lines."

"Ten minutes of three," replied the engineer, holding his watch up to
the light.

"The fog is settling down again, and I have no doubt the captain of
the steamer will get under way at about the hour named," said Christy,
putting his hand on the wire towline, and giving it a shake, to assure
himself that it was all clear. "Now, Mr. Graines, or rather, Mr. Balker,
as you are the mate and I am only the second mate, I think you had
better go aft and see that all goes well there."

"Very well, Mr. Sandman; I will leave you in charge of the forecastle,"
replied the engineer, with a light laugh; but they had been boys
together, and understood each other perfectly.

"Captain Sullendine is the only dangerous man on board, and I think you
had better look after him," added Christy. "If there is any lock on the
door of his stateroom, it would be well to turn the key."

"I will look after him at once, sir," answered Graines, as he leaped
upon the cotton bales and made his way to the quarter-deck.

On the way he examined the condition of Sopsy, and found him snoring
like a roaring lion, in an uneasy position. He turned him over on his
side, and then went to the lair of Bokes, who was in the same condition;
and he concluded that neither of them would come to his senses for a
couple of hours at least.

Captain Sullendine had been assisted to a comfortable position when he
turned in, and he was sleeping with nothing to disturb him. There was no
lock on the door, and Graines could not turn the key. The interior of
the cabin was finished in the most primitive manner, for the vessel had
not been built to accommodate passengers. The door of the captain's
stateroom was made of inch and a half boards, with three battens, and
the handle was an old-fashioned bow-latch. There was a heavy bolt on the
inside, as though the apartment had been built to enable the master to
fortify himself in case of a mutiny.

The engineer could not fasten the door with any of the fixtures on it;
but it opened inward, as is generally the case on shipboard, and this
fact suggested to the ingenious officer the means of securing it even
more effectually than it could have been done with a lock and key. In
the pantry he found a rolling-pin, which the cook must have left there
for some other purpose.

This implement he applied to the bow-handle of the fixture on the door.
It would not fit the iron loop, but he whittled it down on one side
with his pocket-knife till he made it fit exactly in its place with some
hard pressure. But shaking the door might cause it to drop out, and he
completed the job by lashing it to the handle of the door with a lanyard
he had in his pocket. When he had finished his work he was confident the
captain could not get out of his room unless he broke down the door,
which he lacked the means to accomplish.

"West Wind, ahoy!" shouted some one from the stern of the steamer before
the engineer had completed his work in the cabin.

Christy thought that French's voice was a better imitation of Captain
Sullendine's than his own, and he directed him to reply to the hail,
telling him what to say.

"On board the Tallahatchie!" returned the seaman at the lieutenant's
dictation.

"Are you all ready?" shouted the same officer.

"All ready, sir!" replied French.

"Captain Rombold will get under way in five minutes!" called the speaker
on the stern of the steamer. "Wait for three short whistles, and then
heave up your anchor!"

"Understood, and all right," added the spokesman of the West Wind.

"Captain Rombold!" exclaimed Christy to himself, as he heard for the
first time the name of the commander of the Tallahatchie.

The lieutenant, acting as the servant of the French detective at St.
George's in the Bermudas, had seen Captain Rombold, and had heard him
converse for an hour with Mr. Gilfleur, when he was in command of the
Dornoch, which had been captured by the Chateaugay, on board of which
Christy was a passenger. He was known to be a very able and brave
officer, and his defeat was owing more to the heavier metal of the loyal
ship than to any lack of skill or courage on the part of the Confederate
commander. The last the young officer knew about him, he was a prisoner
of war in New York, and had doubtless been exchanged for some loyal
officer of equal rank, for the enemy had plenty of them on hand.

"Man the windlass, my lads," said Christy in a quiet tone, though he was
still thinking of the commander of the steamer which was to tow out the
schooner.

While he was waiting for the three short whistles, Graines came forward
and reported in what manner he had secured the captain, and that the two
men on the cotton bales were still insensible.

"You may be sure the captain will not come out of his stateroom until we
let him out," added the engineer; and Christy proceeded to explain what
had passed between the schooner and the steamer.

"The Tallahatchie has one of the ablest commanders that sail the ocean,
for I have seen and know him," continued the lieutenant. "It is Captain
Rombold, now or formerly, of the British Navy. He is a gentleman and a
scholar, as well as a brave and skilful officer."

"Then Captain Breaker may have his hands full before he captures the
steamer," added the engineer.

"He certainly will; but a great deal depends upon the weight of the
Tallahatchie's metal."

"We shall soon have a chance to judge of that."

"I should like to know something more about this steamer, though my
father's letter gives us the principal details; but we have no time now
to examine her," continued Christy.

"Who's that?" demanded Graines, as he saw a man walking forward over the
bales of cotton.

It proved to be Bokes, who had slept off a part of the effects of the
debauch; but Sopsy had probably consumed a large portion of the contents
of his bottle.

"Does you uns happen to have any more apple-jack?" asked the fellow.
"Somehow I lost nigh all o' mine, and I'm sufferin', dyin' for a drink."

"French, take him to the deck-house, and fasten him in," said Christy in
a low tone.

"Come with me, my hearty, and we'll see what there is in the
deck-house," said the seaman, as he took the man by the arm and led him
to the place indicated. "Now go in and find your bunk. Get into it, and
I will look for a bottle here."

  [Illustration: "Dowse that glim in your fo'castle!" Page 111.]

Bokes crept to his bunk, and stretched himself out there. French took
the bottle the lieutenant had emptied into the bay, and gave it to him.
Then he closed the door, and finding a padlock and hasp on it, he locked
him in. Two of the three men who had remained on board of the schooner
were now prisoners; and Sopsy was considered as harmless as a fishworm.

French had hardly reported what he had done before the three short
whistles were sounded, and Christy gave the order to heave up the
anchor.

"West Wind, ahoy!" shouted the same officer who had spoken before.

"On board the steamer!" replied French, when he was directed to reply.

"Dowse that glim on your fo'castle!" shouted the officer, as with a
liberal dose of profanity he demanded if they were all fools on board of
the schooner. "Put out every light on board!"

"Ay, ay, sir!" responded French, as Graines extinguished the lantern on
the forecastle; and Christy directed him to do the same with the cabin
lamp.

He looked at his watch before he put it out, and found it was
quarter-past three. The captain of the steamer had evidently waited for
a favorable moment to start on his perilous voyage, and the engineer
noticed when he went forward after he had secured Captain Sullendine,
that the fog was again settling down on the bay.

"On board the steamer!" shouted French, as directed. "Anchor aweigh,
sir!" Then a minute later, "All clear, and the towline slack!"

From the sounds that came from the forward part of the steamer, it was
evident that she had heaved up her anchor before she gave the three
whistles for the schooner to do so.

"West Wind, ahoy!" called the officer from the Tallahatchie. "Stand by
your helm with your best man!"

Graines had just gone aft, and had taken the wheel of the vessel; but
Christy sent French to take his first trick at the helm. The tide was
still setting into the bay, and it was within half an hour of the flood.
The schooner was beginning to sway off from the shore as the tide struck
her, when the gong bell in the engine-room of the steamer was heard. She
went ahead very slowly, and straightened the towline. Christy took a
careful survey of its fastenings, to assure himself that it was all
right, and then mounted the cotton bales, to observe the progress of the
vessel.

Of course the steamer was under the direction of a skilful pilot,
doubtless the best that could be had, for the present venture was an
exceedingly important one to the Confederate cause. The Tallahatchie
was perhaps a better vessel than any of those which had done so much
mischief among the ships of the loyal American marine, and in no manner
could the Southern cause be more effectually assisted than by these
cruisers.

As the vessels headed to the southward, Christy went to the binnacle,
and watched the course.




CHAPTER X

THE CASTING OFF OF THE TOWLINE


Christy Passford had been through this channel at least half a dozen
times in the Bellevite, and knew all the courses and bearings, though
the latter did not count in the dense fog which had settled down on the
vicinity of the fort. The lights in the binnacle of the West Wind had
not been put out, though they could not be noticed outside of the
schooner. The great fortress could not be seen, and it was as silent
as a tomb.

"How does she head, Christy?" asked Graines, as they met at the wheel.

"South a quarter west," replied the lieutenant, "which is the correct
course. The fog is very dense just now. I think we have passed the
obstructions by this time, though I do not know precisely where they
are placed."

"I should call it mighty ticklish navigation just here," added the
engineer.

"It is all of that, or will be in five or ten minutes more. Sand Island
Lighthouse is not more than a quarter of a mile from the middle of the
channel, and at that point the course changes. Perhaps the pilot can
make out the lighthouse in the fog. If he don't he will run into five
or six feet of water in a few minutes, out of eight fathoms or more."

"I suppose you are prepared to let go the towline if anything goes
wrong, Mr. Passford?" added the engineer, perhaps as a suggestion rather
than as a question.

"I hope it will not come to that, for the schooner might get aground on
the Knoll before we could make sail," replied Christy.

"The steamer has shifted her helm," said Graines, to the great relief of
the lieutenant. "The fog is lifting again, and the pilot must have seen
the lighthouse. We are headed more to the eastward now."

"The course is south by west, three-quarters west, when the lighthouse
bears west by south. We are out of the woods now, and there will be no
trouble at all till some blockader stirs up the waters," said Christy.

"I wonder where the Bellevite is just now," added Graines, as he looked
all about him as the fog lifted a little more, though it was still too
thick to make out any vessel, if there were any near.

"If my messenger reached the ship in time, she will be found somewhere
near the channel," replied Christy. "Call Lines, if you please, Mr.
Graines."

The seaman presently appeared; and the lieutenant directed him to take
the wheel, French instructing him how to keep the vessel in line with
the steamer.

"I believe you have sailed a schooner, French," said Christy, when he
had taken the man to the quarter.

"Yes, sir; I was mate of a coaster for three years, and I should have
become master of her if the war had not come, and I felt that I ought to
go into the navy, though I haven't got ahead much yet, as I expected I
should; but I am satisfied to fight for my country where I am."

"That is patriotic; and I hope a higher position will be found for you.
But we have not time to talk about that now," continued Christy. "It may
be necessary or advisable for Mr. Graines and myself to leave the West
Wind at any moment now. In that case I shall place this vessel in your
charge, and you will take her off where the Bellevite was moored last
night, and come to anchor."

"Thank you, sir; and I will endeavor to do my duty faithfully," replied
French, touching his cap.

"Now call the men aft, and I will explain the matter to them."

The lieutenant explained the situation, and directed the other five
seamen to respect and obey the man he had selected as captain. Then he
directed French to cast off the stops from the foresail and mainsail,
and have the jib and flying-jib ready to set at a moment's notice.

"I don't think Captain Sullendine can get out of his stateroom, where
he has been confined, or Bokes out of the deck-house; but if either of
them should do so, you must secure them as you think best," continued
Christy. "Do you fully understand your orders, French?"

"Perfectly, Mr. Passford; and I will do my duty as well as I know how,"
answered the able seaman, who, like many others in the service, deserved
a better position.

The new officer and crew went to work on the sails, and in a few minutes
they were ready to be set. Another bank of fog was rolling up, in which
the two vessels would soon be involved. But the Tallahatchie was in a
position where it was plain sailing now, and her future troubles would
all come from the blockaders.

"There you are!" exclaimed the engineer, as the peal of a gun boomed
over the water from the westward. "The steamer has been seen by a
blockader, and she will catch it now."

"I don't believe that was one of the Bellevite's guns," added Christy.
"Captain Breaker would not take a position over to the westward, for
that would give him the outside track, and he always goes at anything by
the shortest way."

"We have the fog again for the next ten or fifteen minutes. The
blockader that fired that shot must have got a sight at the steamer, and
she is still pegging away at her. We may get knocked over by our own
guns," continued Graines.

"There is no danger at present. She can't hit anything in this fog
except by a chance shot."

"And one of them sometimes does the most mischief. The fog is heavier
just now than it has been at any time during the night. I can't see the
Tallahatchie just now."

"It is blacker than a stack of blackbirds," added Christy. "I am
confident that we are at least a mile south of the lighthouse, and we
will take advantage of the gloom to hoist the mainsail, and then the
foresail if it holds as it is now;" and he gave the order to French,
who was assisted by the engineer in the work.

The lieutenant took the wheel, and sent Lines to assist the others.
The blockader to the westward continued to discharge her guns; but her
people could see nothing, and her solid shot began to fall astern of
the West Wind, and the Tallahatchie took no notice of her or her guns.
Christy saw that the fog was lifting again, and this would reveal to the
steamer ahead what he had been doing. Besides, he had gone in tow as
long as he intended. Graines reported the two sails as set.

"Stand by to hoist the jib!" he shouted, deeming it no longer necessary
to conceal his movements.

"What are you doing there?" demanded the officer, who seemed to be in
charge of the after part of the steamer; and his tones, with the flood
of profanity he poured out, indicated that he was in a violent fit of
anger.

"I reckon we won't tow any farther," replied Christy, who was still at
the wheel, and the officer yelled loud enough for him to hear at the
helm; but French repeated his answer.

"All ready to hoist the jib," Graines reported.

"Cast off the towline!" shouted Christy at the top of his lungs. "Hoist
the jib!"

"Towline all clear!" called the engineer a moment later, and the jib
went up in a hurry.

The jib filled on the starboard tack, and the West Wind went off to the
south-east as Christy put up the helm. The fog lifted just enough to
enable the officer at the stern of the steamer to see the West Wind
as she went off on her new course. No one on the former could have
suspected that the latter had changed hands; for French had answered for
Captain Sullendine every time a call was made, and his voice was not
unlike that of the master of the schooner.

Christy could not understand why the officer who used so many expletives
should be dissatisfied, for the Tallahatchie could certainly make better
time when no longer encumbered by the towing of the West Wind. But it
must look to him just as though the schooner would be captured by the
steamer to the westward, which had been uselessly firing at the
blockade-runners in the densest of the fog. He could not help seeing
that the vessel in tow had set her sails, and therefore the casting off
of the wire rope could not have been caused by an accident.

The action of the captain of the schooner, for they had no reason to
suppose the change on board of the schooner was not made by him, must
have bewildered the officers of the Tallahatchie. But the fog was
lifting, the steamer to windward was now under way, though moving very
slowly, and her solid shot fell very near to the Confederate vessel.

By this time the sails of the West Wind were all drawing full, and the
craft was making very good headway through the water. The fog bank had
scattered, and appeared now to be in a dozen smaller masses, floating
off in the direction of Mobile Point. Christy still retained the wheel,
while Graines was putting everything in order forward and in the waist,
after setting the sails.

"Send French aft to take the wheel, Mr. Graines," called Christy, as the
engineer came aft to see the main sheet.

This man, who was the captain of the forecastle, one of the most
important and best-paid of the petty officers, hastened aft to relieve
the chief of the expedition, who went to work with his own hands when
the exigency of the service required.

"Make the course south-west, French," said Christy, as he abandoned the
wheel to the petty officer.

"South-west, sir," repeated the seaman.

"Can you make out the Bellevite, Mr. Graines?" asked he, as he met the
engineer on the quarterdeck.

"I have kept a sharp lookout for her, Mr. Passford, but I have not seen
her yet," replied Graines, as he looked earnestly in the direction in
which the schooner was headed.

"If Captain Breaker received my message sent by Weeks, the ship must
have taken a position somewhere below the entrance to the channel, and
that is about four miles south of the fort, and out of the reach of any
of its guns," added the lieutenant.

"There are half a dozen of those fog banks floating about near the water
in that direction, and she may be there," replied Graines, as he took a
spy-glass from the brackets in the companion. "Very likely she is down
that way somewhere, and the Tallahatchie may run right into her."

"I don't think Captain Breaker would place his ship where anything of
this kind would be likely to happen," replied Christy. "It is still as
dark as Egypt ahead, and I think we shall see the Bellevite very soon."

The Confederate steamer had sensibly increased her speed, and gave no
attention whatever to the schooner or the blockader to the westward of
her. Captain Rombold seemed to be possessed of a supreme confidence in
the speed of his steamer, and a complete assurance that he should escape
unscathed from all pursuers, if any attempted to follow him. He was not
aware that the Bellevite had recently had her bottom cleaned, and her
engine put in thoroughly good condition, so that she could make as many
knots in an hour as ever before; and that was saying more than could be
said of any other craft in the navy.

"I would give my month's pay to know what the Tallahatchie has for a
midship gun," said Christy, still gazing at the Confederate vessel as
she continued to increase her speed.

Suddenly, without saying anything, Graines, who had been at his side,
left him, and hastened to the companion, where he stooped down and gazed
into the cabin. Christy had heard nothing to attract his attention, but
he concluded that Captain Sullendine had escaped from his prison, and
he called the two men who had been stationed in the waist to the
quarter-deck to render such assistance as the engineer might need; but
this officer remained at the entrance to the cabin, and made no further
movement.




CHAPTER XI

A HAPPY RETURN TO THE BELLEVITE


Although he anticipated a disagreeable scene with the captain of the
West Wind, who, he supposed, had slept off the fumes of the inordinate
quantity of liquor he had drunk, he did not consider that there was any
peril in the situation, for he had plenty of force to handle him easily.
His curiosity was excited, and he walked over to the companion, where
Graines appeared to be gazing into the darkness of the cabin; but he did
not interfere with the proceedings of his fellow-officer.

"We don't need the men you have called from the waist," said the
engineer in a low tone.

Christy sent the two men back to their former station. As he was
returning to his chosen position abaft the companion, he saw a glimmer
of light in the gloom of the cabin. Graines invited him to take a
place at his side, chuckling perceptibly as he made room for him.
The lieutenant stooped down so that he could see into the cabin, and
discovered a man with a lighted match in his hand, fumbling at the door
of the closet where Captain Sullendine kept his whiskey.

"Is that the captain?" whispered Christy, who could not make out the
man, though he was not as tall as the master of the West Wind.

"No; it is Bokes," replied Graines. "He must have got out of the
deck-house through one of the windows. He found the bottle French gave
him was empty, and I have no doubt his nerves are in a very shaky
condition."

Both of the officers had leaned back, so that their whispers did not
disturb the operator in the cabin. His first match had gone out, and
he lighted another. Captain Sullendine had been too much overcome by
his potations to take his usual precautions for the safety of his
spirit-room, and the observers saw that the key was in the door. Bokes
took one of the bottles, and carried it to the table. His match went
out, and he poked about for some time in the cabin.

Presently he was seen again, coming out of the pantry with a lighted
lantern in his hand, which he placed on the table. He had a corkscrew in
the other hand, with which he proceeded, as hurriedly as his trembling
hands would permit, to open the bottle, for the master had drained the
last one. Then he poured out a tumblerful of whiskey, as the observers
judged it was from its color, and drank it off. At this point Graines
descended to the cabin and confronted the fellow.

Christy, after taking a long look to the south-east, followed the
engineer into the cabin, for it was possible that his companion intended
to look into the condition of Captain Sullendine, and he desired to be
present at the interview.

"Good-morning, Bokes," said Graines, as he placed himself in front of
the seaman.

"Mornin', Mr. Balker," replied Bokes; and the heavy drink he had just
taken appeared to have done nothing more than steady his nerves, for he
seemed to have the full use of his faculties.

"How do you feel this morning, my friend?" continued the engineer; and
Christy thought he was making himself very familiar with the boozing
seaman, who was at least fifty years old.

"Fine's a fiddle-string," replied Bokes. "We done got out all right,
I reckon;" and it was plain that he had not taken notice that the
schooner was no longer in tow of the steamer.

"All right," replied Graines, as he placed himself on a stool, and
pushed another towards the sailor, who seated himself. "By the way,
friend Bokes, I suppose you have been on board of the Tallahatchie?"

"More'n a dozen times, here 'n' up in Mobile. My fust cousin's an 'iler
aboard on her," replied Bokes.

"How many guns does she carry?" asked the engineer in a very quiet tone,
though the man did not seem to be at all suspicious that he was in the
act of being used for a purpose.

"I don't jest know how many guns she kerries; but she's got a big
A'mstrong barker 'midships that'll knock any Yankee ship inter the
middle o' next year 'n less time 'n it'll take you to swaller a tot
o' Kaintuck whiskey. It's good for five-mile shots."

"This is her midship gun, you say?"

"Midship gun, sir; 'n I heard 'em say it flung a shot nigh on to a
hundred pounds," added Bokes.

Both Christy and Graines asked the man other questions; but he had not
made good use of his opportunities, and knew very little about the
armament of the Tallahatchie; yet he remembered what he had heard others
say about her principal gun. The lieutenant knew all about the Armstrong
piece, for he had in his stateroom the volume on "Ordinance and
Gunnery," by Simpson, and he had diligently studied it.

"Mr. Passford," said one of the hands at the head of the companion
ladder.

"On deck," replied Christy.

"Steamer on the port bow," added the seaman.

"That must be the Bellevite," said the lieutenant.

"Now you may go on deck, Bokes," added Graines, as he drove the boozer
ahead of him, and followed his superior.

He instructed the men in the waist to keep an eye on Bokes, and sent
him forward. Then he took the precaution to lock the doors at the
companion-way, and joined Christy on the quarterdeck.

"That's the Bellevite without a doubt," said Christy, as he directed the
spy-glass he had taken from the brackets, and was still looking through
it. "But she is farther to the eastward than I expected to find her."

"I suppose her commander knows what he is about," replied Graines.

"Certainly he does; and I do not criticise his action."

All the steamers on the blockade except the Bellevite and the one in
the west had been sent away on other duty, for it was believed that the
former would be enough to overhaul anything that was likely to come out
of Mobile Bay at this stage of the war. Sure of the steamer of which he
was the executive officer, Christy directed his glass towards the one
on the other side of the channel. She had received no notice of the
approach of a powerful blockade-runner, and she had not a full head of
steam when she discovered the Tallahatchie. Besides, she was one of the
slowest vessels in the service.

The black smoke was pouring out of her smokestack as though she was
using something besides anthracite coal in her furnaces, and she was
doing her best to intercept the Confederate. She was still firing her
heaviest gun, though it could be seen that her shots fell far short of
the swift steamer.

"They have seen the Bellevite on board of the Tallahatchie, and she has
changed her course," said Graines, while Christy was still watching the
movements of the blockader in the west. "Probably Captain Rombold knows
all about the Bellevite, and he is not anxious to get too near her."

"She has pointed her head to the south-west, and the Bellevite is
changing her course. I hope we shall not miss her," added Christy.

When the fog bank blew over and revealed her presence on board of the
West Wind, the Bellevite was not more than half a mile to the southward,
but she was at least two miles to the eastward of her.

"Can we get any more sail on this craft, Mr. Graines?" asked the
lieutenant.

"We can set her two gaff-topsails."

"Do so as speedily as possible."

Christy went to the wheel, and Graines, with three men at each sail,
assisting himself, soon had shaken out and set the gaff-topsails. The
effect was immediately apparent in the improved sailing of the schooner.
A Confederate flag was found in the signal chest, and it was set at the
main topmast head, with the American ensign over it, so that it could
be easily seen on board of the Bellevite. The lieutenant was now very
confident that he should intercept his ship.

"Now clear away that quarter-boat, so that we can drop it into the water
without any delay," continued Christy, as he gave up the wheel to Lines
again.

Graines hastened to obey the order, for the Bellevite was rushing
through the water at her best speed, and it was evident enough by this
time that Weeks had faithfully performed the duty assigned to him.

"A small pull on the fore-sheet, Londall," called Christy to one of the
men on the forecastle. "Another on the main sheet," he added to Fallon
in the waist.

The bow of the West Wind was thus pointed closer into the wind; and the
gaff-topsails enabled her to hold her speed after this change. Paul
Vapoor, the chief engineer of the Bellevite, was plainly doing his best
in the engine-room, and if the lieutenant had been a sporting man,
he would have been willing to wager that his ship would overhaul the
Tallahatchie; for on an emergency she had actually steamed twenty-two
knots an hour, and Christy believed she could do it now, being in
first-rate condition, if the occasion required.

"What time is it now, Mr. Graines?" asked Christy.

"Quarter-past four," replied the engineer, when he had lighted a match
and looked at his watch.

"I thought it was later than that, and I have been looking for some
signs of daylight," replied the lieutenant.

"It is just breaking a little in the east."

"I suppose Captain Sullendine is still asleep."

"No doubt of it; he has not had two hours yet in his berth, and he is
good for two hours more at least."

"I think we shall be on board of the Bellevite in ten minutes more,"
continued Christy, as he noted the position of the ship. "Have you
instructed French what to do with Captain Sullendine if he should
attempt to make trouble?"

"I told him to keep him in his stateroom, and I feel pretty sure he
can't get out. If Bokes, who must have an idea of what is going on by
this time, is troublesome, I told French to tie his hands behind him,
and make him fast to the fore-rigging."

"The fog is settling down again on the Tallahatchie; but Captain Breaker
knows where she is, and he will not let up till he has got his paw on
her," said Graines. "The blockader in the west isn't anywhere now. She
could not do a thing with such a steamer as that Confederate."

The West Wind was now directly in the path of the Bellevite, and in
five minutes more she stopped her screw. Possibly her commander was
bewildered at the sight of the schooner, whose flag indicated that she
was already a prize, though he could hardly understand to what vessel;
for nothing was known on board of her in regard to the cotton vessel the
Tallahatchie was to tow to sea.

"Stand by to lower the boat on the quarter!" shouted Christy, perhaps
a little excited at the prospect of soon being on the deck of his own
ship, as he and Graines took their places in the craft.

The four men at the falls lowered the boat into the water in the
twinkling of an eye, and the two officers dropped the oars into the
water as soon as it was afloat. They pulled like men before the mast,
and went astern of the schooner, whose head had been thrown up into
the wind to enable the officers to embark in safety. French was now in
command of the schooner, and he filled away as soon as the boat pulled
off from her side.

The Bellevite had stopped her screw a little distance from the West
Wind, and, as the boat approached her, she backed her propeller. Her
gangway had been lowered, and the two officers leaped upon the landing.
They had hardly done so before the great gong in the engine-room was
heard, and the steamer went ahead again. The boat was allowed to go
adrift; but Christy shouted to French to pick it up. The lieutenant's
heart beat a lively tattoo as he mounted the steps, and ascended to the
deck.




CHAPTER XII

A LIVELY CHASE TO THE SOUTH-WEST


Captain Breaker had been in the main rigging with his night-glass,
watching the movements of the chase; but he recognized the voice of
Christy when he shouted to French to pick up the quarter-boat of the
schooner, as he could no longer make out the Tallahatchie in the fog.

"Good-morning, Mr. Passford," said he, as he met Christy when he
descended from the rail. "I am glad to see you again."

"Good-morning, Captain Breaker," replied the lieutenant, as he took the
offered hand of the commander. "I hope all is well on board, sir."

"Entirely well, and your messenger came on board in good time, so that
we were in position to get the first sight of the Trafalgar when she
showed herself off Sand Island Lighthouse," replied the captain, as he
led the way to his cabin. "Mr. Ballard, keep a sharp lookout for the
chase," he added to the acting executive officer.

"Will you allow me to put on my uniform, Captain?" asked Christy.
"I don't feel quite at home on board the ship in the rigout I have worn
all night."

"Certainly; for I do not wish you to show yourself to the ship's company
while you look so little like a naval officer," replied the captain, as
he went to take another look at the darkness ahead.

The lieutenant hastened to his stateroom, and in a very short time he
had washed off the smut from his face and hands, and dressed himself in
his uniform, so that he looked like quite another person, Graines had
gone to his room in the steerage for the same purpose, for neither of
them desired to show himself as he had appeared before Captain
Sullendine.

Christy hurried to the deck as soon as he had made the change, and met
the commander on the quarter-deck. Lookouts were stationed aloft and on
the top-gallant forecastle, and all hands were in a state of healthy
excitement in view of the stirring event which was likely to transpire
before the lapse of many hours; and doubtless some of the men were moved
by the prospect of prize-money, not only from the proceeds of the sale
of the steamer they were chasing, but from the full freight of cotton on
board of the schooner, the deck load of which had been noted by some of
the crew.

The schooner which had come so close aboard of the Bellevite was a
mystery to all, from the captain down to the humblest seaman; but the
American ensign over the Confederate flag had been observed by a few,
and this settled her status. Not more than half of the seamen were aware
that an expedition had left the ship at ten o'clock the evening before,
and they had had no opportunity to notice the absence of the executive
officer during the night; and even yet all hands had not been called,
for the regular watch was enough to get the ship under way.

The commander conducted the executive officer to his own cabin, again
reminding Mr. Ballard to keep a sharp lookout for the chase. Christy
felt like himself again in his neat uniform, and his vigorous and well
knit, as well as graceful form, did more to show off the dress than the
dress did to adorn his person.

"I am very glad to see you again, Christy," said Captain Breaker,
seating himself and pointing to an arm-chair for the lieutenant, while
he came down from the stately dignity of the commander of a man-of-war
to the familiarity with which he treated his chief officer when they
were alone. "I had no doubt that you would give a good account of
yourself, as you always do. You were going on the enemy's territory, and
you were in peril all the time. Now you come off in a schooner, which
appears to be loaded with cotton, and how or where you picked her up is
a mystery to me;" and the commander indulged in a laugh at the oddity of
the young officer's reappearance. "Your messenger reported that the
Trafalgar would sail at three o'clock in the morning, and I judge that
she left at about that hour."

"Within ten minutes of it, and probably made an arrangement with the
commandant of the fort to that effect," added Christy. "But they do not
call her the Trafalgar now; though Weeks was not aware of the fact when
I sent him on board. She is now the Tallahatchie, though I noticed that
some in the vicinity of the fort still called her by her old name."

"Never mind the name; she will answer our purpose as well under one
appellation as another. When I asked your messenger about you and the
other six men of your party, he was unable to give me any information
in regard to your movements; and he could not tell me how you had
ascertained the hour at which the steamer was to sail," continued the
captain.

"Graines and myself separated from the party as soon as we landed on the
point; and we had obtained our information before we joined them again
on the shore of Mobile Bay, sir. At the same time we had learned all
about the West Wind"--

"The what?" interposed the commander.

"I mean the schooner West Wind, the one from which we came on board of
the Bellevite, which was to be towed out by the Tallahatchie, and which
was towed out by her till we on board of her cast off the towline."

"Perhaps you had better narrate the events of your expedition
_seriatim_, for all you say in this disconnected manner only thickens
the mystery," said the commander: and he knew that his officer had an
excellent command of the English language, and could make a verbal
report in a very attractive and telling style, though perhaps his
fatherly interest in the young man had something to do with the matter.

Christy began his narrative with the departure from the ship, passing
lightly over the minor details till he came to the meeting with the
deserters from the West Wind, bivouacking in the hollow. He described
the drinking bout which followed, in which he and Graines had pretended
to join, stating the information he had obtained from them. He rehearsed
a portion of Captain Sullendine's speech, adding that most of his
auditors were the seamen from the Bellevite, though he had sent four
of them back to the ship before he reached the shore.

He detailed his interview with the master of the West Wind, explaining
how he had shipped the new crew with him. The scenes in the cabin were
described in full; in fact, every incident of any importance which had
transpired during the night was related. The commander was deeply
interested, and listened without comment to the narrative up to the
moment when the narrator had come on board of the Bellevite. He was not
sparing in his praise of the engineer, and separated what he had said
and done as far as he could from his own words and actions.

The commander then questioned him in regard to the armament of the
Tallahatchie, and he repeated the meagre information he had obtained
from Bokes. Some conversation concerning Armstrong guns followed; but
both of them were well posted in regard to this long-range piece.
Christy read the satisfaction with which the captain heard his
statements on his face.

A knock at the door of the cabin disturbed the conference, and the
lieutenant was directed to open the door. The shaking and straining of
the ship had for some time indicated that Paul Vapoor was fully alive to
the importance of getting the Bellevite's best speed out of her on the
present occasion; and he did not intrust the duty to his subordinates.
Christy opened the cabin door, and Midshipman Walters asked for the
commander, and was admitted.

"Mr. Ballard directs me to inform you, sir, that we are gaining on the
chase," said the young officer. "The fog has lifted again, and we can
make her out very clearly. The Holyoke has abandoned the chase, and
appears to be headed for the schooner that came to on the starboard
of the ship."

"Tell Mr. Ballard to keep the ship as she is, headed for the
Tallahatchie," replied Captain Breaker.

"The Tallahatchie, sir?" queried the midshipman.

"Formerly the Trafalgar," added the commander.

The young officer touched his cap and retired.

"This Captain Sullendine is still secured in his stateroom on board of
the West Wind, is he?" asked the captain, rising from his arm-chair.

"He was when I left the schooner, sir," replied Christy. "French, the
captain of the forecastle, is in charge of the vessel, with orders to
anchor her a couple of miles to the eastward of the lighthouse. I have
already commended French to your attention, Captain, as a faithful and
reliable man, and I think he deserves promotion."

"Your recommendation will go a great way to procure it for him," added
the commander with a significant smile.

"He is a thorough seaman, has been the mate of a large coaster, and
would have become master of her if his patriotic duty had not led him
to ship in the navy."

"He is a resolute and brave fellow in action, as I have had occasion to
observe, and I shall remember him. When you are writing to your father
it would be well for you to mention him; and the thing will be done at
your request if not at mine."

"It certainly would not be done without your indorsement, for my father
will not indulge in any favoritism aside from real merit," protested the
lieutenant, with some warmth.

"You are quite right, Christy. We must go on deck now," added Captain
Breaker, as he moved towards the door. "You have been up all night, my
boy; it will be some hours before we come within reach of the chase, and
you can turn in and get a little sleep before anything stirring takes
place on board."

The excitement which had animated the young officer during the night
had subsided with the rendering of his report, and the responsibility
of a command no longer rested upon him, and for the first time since he
embarked in the whaleboat, he began to feel tired and sleepy. He went on
deck with the commander, and took a survey, first of the chase, then of
the Holyoke, and finally of the West Wind.

Captain Breaker thought the Tallahatchie was about five miles distant.
Seen through the glass, for the fog had all blown away, and the daylight
had begun to obscure the stars, the steamer seemed to be doing her best.
The Holyoke was headed to the eastward, evidently intending to chase the
West Wind, for she could not yet make out her flags, indicating that she
was already a prize. She need not have troubled herself to pursue the
schooner if she had known the facts in regard to her, for she was
entitled to a share of the prize as a member of the blockading fleet at
the time of her capture. But she could prevent her from being retaken by
any boat expedition sent from the shore, as her lonely position where
the Bellevite had been for several days might tempt some enterprising
Confederate officer to do.

Although the last heaving of the log showed twenty knots, it was a quiet
time of the deck of the Bellevite, and all the excitement on board was
confined to the engine and fire rooms. With sundry gapes Christy had
taken in the situation, and then he concluded to avail himself of the
commander's permission to retire to his stateroom, where he was soon in
a sound slumber.

Just before, Captain Breaker had retired to his cabin, where he had a
chart of the Gulf of Mexico spread out on his table. Assuming the point
where the Tallahatchie had changed her course to the south-west, he drew
a line in that direction, and realized that the chase could not go clear
of the Passes of the Mississippi River; and she was likely to sight some
Federal steamer in that locality.

As the daylight increased the weather improved so far as the fog was
concerned and it promised to be a clear day, for the stars had not
been obscured at any time during the night. The only alternative the
commander could see for the chase, as he studied the chart, was to go
to the southward before he could sight the Pass  l'Outre. He was so
confident that this must be his course, that he decided to take
advantage of the situation, and he went on deck at once, where he
ordered the officer of the deck to make the course south south-west.




CHAPTER XIII

THE FIRST SHOT OF BLUMENHOFF


Captain Breaker watched the Tallahatchie with the most earnest
attention; and it was not five minutes after he had given out the new
course before she changed her direction, though not to the south, but
enough to carry her clear of the Passes of the Mississippi. Paul Vapoor
was still crowding the engine to the utmost that could be done with
safety, and he spent no little of his time in the fire room, personally
directing the men in the work of feeding the furnaces.

It was evident to the commander that his ship was gaining on the
Tallahatchie, at least a knot an hour, as he estimated it, and the chase
could not now be more than four miles distant. This was within the range
of her Armstrong gun, if it was of the calibre reported by Bokes, whose
information was mere hearsay, and was open to many doubts.

"She is changing her course again, Captain Breaker," said Mr. Ballard,
who had been observing the chase with the best glass on board.

"Probably she has discovered a man-of-war in the distance," added the
captain.

"I cannot make out anything to the westward of her," said Mr. Ballard,
who had directed his glass that way.

"She knows very well that she is liable to encounter a Federal ship on
the course she is running. How does she head now?"

"As nearly south as I can make it out."

"Then we have made something on her by going to the south south-west
in good season; and I am sorry I did not do it sooner," replied the
commander, as he went into a fine calculation, estimating sundry angles,
and figuring on the gain he was confident he had already made.

"I think she is headed due south now, Captain," said Mr. Ballard.

"So I should say, and we are headed a little too much to the westward.
Make the course south by west half west, Mr. Ballard."

This course was given to the quartermaster conning the wheel. For
another hour the two steamers kept on the course taken, at the end of
which time the captain believed they were within three miles of each
other; and the appearance, as viewed by skilful and experienced
officers, verified his estimate of the relative speed of both--that
the Bellevite was gaining about a knot an hour on the chase.

They had hardly agreed upon the situation before a cloud of smoke was
seen to rise from the waist of the Tallahatchie, followed by the report
of a heavy gun. The projectile struck the water at least a quarter of
a mile ahead of the Bellevite, at which the watch on deck gave a
half-suppressed cheer.

"They must have better gunners than that indicates on board of that
steamer, for she has been fitted out as a cruiser," said the commander
with a quiet smile.

Twenty minutes later another puff of smoke, followed by a second report,
excited the attention of an officer on the deck of the loyal ship. The
shot struck the water only a little less ahead of the ship than the
former, and the crew gave a more vigorous cheer: but it was observed
that it hit the sea a little on the starboard bow, so that if it had
been better aimed it would not have reached the ship.

"She is wasting her ammunition," said the captain. "She seems to be
jesting, or else she is trying to frighten us."

"I think it is some thing worse than that, Captain Breaker," replied Mr.
Ballard.

"What could be worse?"

"I am inclined to the opinion that she cannot swing the gun around so as
to make it bear on an object so far astern of her as this ship is at the
present moment." said the lieutenant.

"He has an all sufficient remedy for that," added the captain. "He can
swing his ship's head around so his gun will bear on us."

"But that would cause him to lose a quarter of a mile or more of his
advantage; and she seems to be more inclined to run away from the
Bellevite than to fight her," suggested the lieutenant.

"Call all hands, Mr. Ballard," said the commander; and in a few minutes
all the officers and seamen were at their stations.

The call awoke Christy from his slumber, which the report of the gun and
the cheering of the men had failed to do. But he understood the summons,
and thought the action was about to begin. He adjusted his dress and
hastened to the quarter deck, where he reported in due form to the
captain. Mr. Ballard was relieved of his duties as acting executive
officer, and went to his proper station to take command of his division.
Christy took a careful survey of the situation, and saw that the
Bellevite had gained at least two knots on the chase. The Holyoke and
the West Wind were no longer in sight, though the fog seemed to be still
hanging about the entrance to Mobile Bay.

"The Tallahatchie has fired two shots at us, Mr. Passford; but she
wasted her ammunition," said the commander. "I am inclined to agree with
Mr. Ballard that she cannot swing her Armstrong gun so as to cover the
Bellevite."

"She has stopped her screw, sir!" exclaimed the first lieutenant, who
was looking at the chase through the best glass.

"Make the course west, Mr. Passford!" said the captain with energy.

"Quartermaster, make it west!" shouted Christy.

"West, sir!" repeated the quartermaster, as he caused the helmsmen to
heave over the wheel.

Directing his glass to the chase again, Christy saw the Tallahatchie
swing around so that she was broadside to the Bellevite. Almost at the
same moment the smoke rose from her deck, and the sound of the gun
reached the ears of the officers and crew. The shot passed with a mighty
whiz between the fore and main mast of the ship, cutting away one of the
fore topsail braces, but doing no other damage. The seamen cheered as
they had before. The Tallahatchie started her screw as soon as she had
discharged her gun, and resumed her former course, the Bellevite doing
the same.

If the loyal ship had not promptly altered her course, the projectile
would have raked her, and must have inflicted much greater injury in
the spars and rigging. But both vessels promptly resumed their former
relative positions, though the Tallahatchie had lost some of her
advantage by coming to, while her pursuer had only made a small circuit
without stopping her engine for a moment.

"If she does that again, Mr. Passford, we must be ready to return her
fire," said the captain. "Have the pivot gun ready, and aim for her
Armstrong, which seems to be sufficiently prominent on her deck to make
a good target."

Christy hastened forward, and gave the order to Mr. Ballard, in whose
division the great Parrot was included. The signal was promptly given
for manning the gun, and seventeen men immediately sprang to their
stations. The men were armed with cutlasses, muskets, battle-axes,
pistols, and pikes, which were so disposed as to be in readiness for
boarding the enemy, or repelling boarders.

"A solid shot, and aim at the pivot gun of the enemy," said Christy in
a low tone to the second lieutenant, who had the reputation of being an
expert in the handling of guns of the largest calibre.

There were two captains to the pivot gun, one on each side, stationed
nearest to the base of the breech. Seventeen men were required to work
the pivot gun, whose duties were defined in the names applied to them,
the powderman being the odd one. The first and second captains were
numbers one and two; the odd numbers being on the right, and the even
on the left of the piece: number three was the first loader, four the
first sponger, five the second loader, six the second sponger, seven the
first shellman, eight the second shellman, nine the first handspikeman,
ten the second handspikeman, eleven the first train tackleman, twelve
the second train tackleman (the last two at the breech, next to
the captains), thirteen first side tackleman, fourteen second side
tackleman, fifteen first port tackleman, sixteen second port tackleman.

The gun crew had been frequently drilled in the management of the piece,
and the men were entirely at home in their stations. Other hands had
been trained in serving the gun, so that the places of any disabled in
action could be replaced. The service at the Parrot was not all that was
required of the men forming the gun crew, for each was also a first or
second boarder, a pumpman, or something else, and to each number one
or two weapons were assigned, as musket and pike, sword and pistol,
battle-axe. When the order to board the enemy was given, every man
knew his station and his proper officer.

"Silence, men!" commanded the second lieutenant, "Cast loose and
provide!"

These orders were repeated by the first captain of the gun. It is his
duty to see the piece cleared and cast loose, and everything made ready
for action. He and the second captain "provide" themselves with waist
belts and primers, and the first with some other implements. But the
handling of one of these great guns is about as technical as a surgical
operation would be, and it would be quite impossible for the uninitiated
to understand it, though it is every-day work to the ordinary
man-of-war's-man.

Prompted by the executive officer, who had been further instructed by
the captain, all the series of steps had been taken which put the piece
in readiness to be discharged, and all that remained to be done was to
adjust the aim, which is done by the first captain. At this time the
distance between the two ships had been considerably reduced. The
captain and the first lieutenant were closely watching the chase with
glasses.

The crew of the Tallahatchie could be seen at work at the long gun, and
another shot from it was momentarily expected. The instant the bow of
the enemy began to swerve to port, the captain of the Bellevite gave the
order to put the helm to starboard. Almost at the same instant the enemy
stopped her screw, swung round and fired her long gun. The projectile
crashed through the bulwarks between the foremast and top-gallant
forecastle, wounding two men with the splinters which flew in every
direction.

Dr. Linscott and his mates had established themselves in the cockpit,
to which the wounded are conveyed, in action, for treatment. The two men
who had been injured by the splinters were not disabled, and they were
ordered to report to the surgeon. Before the enemy could resume her
course, the captain of the pivot gun had caught his aim, and discharged
the Parrot. All hands watched for the result of the shot, and the
glasses of the captain and the first lieutenant were directed to the
chase.

She was near enough now to be observed with the naked eye with tolerable
accuracy, and a shout went up from the men at the pivot gun, in which
the rest of the crew on deck joined, as they saw that the shot had
struck the midship gun of the enemy, or very near it; and this was the
point where old Blumenhoff, the captain of the gun, had been directed
to aim. He was a German, but he had served for twenty-one years in
the British navy, and had won a brilliant reputation in his present
position.

It could not be immediately determined whether or not the Armstrong had
been disabled. The Tallahatchie had swung round again and resumed her
flight; but her commander must have realized by this time that he was
getting the worst of it. Paul Vapoor had not left his post in the engine
and fire room, to ascertain how the battle was going, but still plied
all his energies in driving the Bellevite to the utmost speed she could
possibly attain. The log was frequently heaved, and the last result had
been sent down to him by Midshipman Walters, and it was twenty-one
knots.

During the next hour the long gun of the enemy was not again discharged,
and the officers of the loyal ship were assured that it had been
rendered useless by Blumenhoff's only shot.




CHAPTER XIV

THE PROGRESS OF THE ACTION


The tremendous speed of the Bellevite had been telling with prodigious
effect upon the distance between the two steamers, which was now reduced
to not more than a mile and a half. Captain Rombold could not help
realizing by this time that the American-built vessel outsailed the
English-built. If the Trafalgar was good for twenty knots an hour, as
represented, she had hardly attained that speed, as Captain Breaker
judged by comparison with that of his own ship.

The Armstrong gun was still silent and it was pretty well settled that
it had been disabled. In this connection Christy recalled something he
had read in Simpson about the "inability of the Armstrong gun to resist
impact," and he sent Midshipman Walters to bring the volume from his
state-room. When it came he found the place, and read that three shots
had been fired into one of them from a nine-pounder, either of which
would have been fatal to the piece; and the section described the effect
of each upon it.

He showed the book open at the place to Captain Breaker; but he had read
it, and carried the whole matter in his mind. The gun quoted was weak,
though the one on the deck of the Tallahatchie was vastly larger; but a
correspondingly heavy force had been brought to bear upon it.

"I am satisfied that the enemy's long gun has been disabled; and while
she continues the attempt to run away from us, she is unable to use her
broadside guns to advantage, for she cannot bring them to bear upon us
without coming to," said the commander. "But we are gaining at least a
knot and a half an hour on her, and she must soon change her tactics."

"That is evident enough, sir," added Christy.

"The captain of that ship is a brave fellow, and I am confident he will
fight as long as there is anything left of him," continued the captain
as he occasionally directed his glass at the chase.

"He certainly will, sir, for I have seen his ship knocked out from under
him, when he had abundant excuse for hauling down his flag before he did
so; and we had hardly time on board of the Chateaugay to save his people
before his vessel went to the bottom," continued Christy. "More than
that, he is a gentleman and a scholar."

"You have told me about him, Christy; and I believe you suggested to
Captain Chantor his best plan of action."

"I simply indicated what I should do in his place, and he adopted the
method I mentioned," added Christy modestly.

"We may find it advisable to resort to the same plan, though I must add
that it is by no means original with you. It was adopted in the war of
1812 with England."

"I did not claim the method as original, and knew very well that it was
not so," replied the lieutenant.

"The conditions on both sides must be favorable to the method or it
cannot be adopted. One of the ships must have heavier metal than the
other, so that she can knock her enemy to pieces at her leisure, and at
the same time greater speed, so that she can keep out of the reach of
guns of shorter range."

"I am sorry I could not obtain more definite information in regard to
the broadside guns of the Tallahatchie," added Christy. "Bokes was a
stupid fellow, drunk whenever he could obtain liquor, and could remember
very little of what he heard on board of the steamer. But you have the
long range Parrot, and I have no doubt you can knock her to pieces in
your own time, since it has been demonstrated that we can outsail her."

But at this moment the conversation was disturbed by the movement of the
chase, which appeared to be again preparing to come about. The commander
ordered the helm to be put to starboard to avoid being raked, and
directed that the pivot gun should be discharged at the enemy. The enemy
fired a broadside of three guns in quick succession, the solid shots
from all them striking the Bellevite between wind and water. The
carpenter's gang was hurried below to plug the shot holes.

Blumenhoff secured his aim and fired; but this time he was less happy
than on the former occasion, and though the shot went between the masts,
no great damage appeared to be done. The enemy started her screw
immediately, and swung around so as to present her starboard broadside
before the Parrot could be made ready for another shot. The Tallahatchie
delivered another three shots, two of which went wide of the mark. The
third struck the carriage of the pivot gun, but fortunately it was not
disabled, for it had been built to resist a heavier ball than the one
which had struck it.

The captain of the Bellevite gave the order to Christy to swing to the
ship, and give the enemy a broadside. The order was promptly executed as
the enemy came about and resumed her course to the southward, which was
certainly a very bad movement on her part. The four guns on the port
side, two sixties and two thirties, sent their solid shots over the
stern of the Tallahatchie.

A moment later, as the fresh breeze carried away the smoke to the
north-east, the crew set up a lively cheer, for the mizzen mast of the
chase toppled over into the water, and the pilot house seemed to have
been knocked into splinters.

"Well done!" exclaimed Captain Breaker, clapping his hands as he
faced the guns' crews on the port side, and Christy joined him in the
demonstration.

The men of the division gave another lusty cheer in response to the
approval of the two chief officers. The captain had already ordered the
ship to be put about so as to deliver the starboard broadside, and the
other division of guns were impatient to have their chance at the enemy.

Christy had clapped his hands with his spy-glass under his arm; and
when he had rendered his tribute of applause, he directed the instrument
to the enemy. A squad of men were at work over the ruins of the pilot
house, which was still forward, as the vessel had been built for a
pleasure yacht, and another gang were getting the extra wheel at the
stern ready for use.

The Bellevite came about in obedience to the order Christy had given to
the quartermaster conning the wheel, and the guns on the starboard side
were all ready to deliver their messengers of death and destruction.

"Aim at that extra wheel," said the captain; and Christy delivered the
order to the officers of the division.

The broadside was of the same metal as on the port side, and the result
was looked for with even more interest than before. The appearance was
that all three shots had struck at or near the wheel at the stern, and
Christy promptly directed his glass to that part of the steamer, the
captain doing the same thing.

"There is nothing of the wheel left in sight," said the lieutenant.
"The taffrail is knocked away, and at least one of those shots must have
knocked the captain's cabin into utter confusion."

"Go ahead at full speed, Mr. Passford," said Captain Breaker, after he
had fully measured with his eye the damage done to the enemy.

"Her steering gear seems to be entirely disabled, sir," continued
Christy, after he had given the order to the chief engineer. "She does
not appear to be able to come about, as no doubt she would if she could,
so as to bring her broadside guns to bear upon us."

The order had been given before to load the broadside and pivot guns
with shells. The enemy had not started her screw for the reason that the
ship was unmanageable with her steering gear disabled. The action had
certainly gone against her; but she gave no indication that she was
ready to surrender for the Confederate flag, which had been hoisted at
the mainmast head when the mizzen was shot away, still floated in the
breeze.

A gang of men were still at work where the extra wheel had been, and the
commander evidently expected he should be able to repair the damage in
some manner so that he could steer his ship. Captain Breaker gave the
command to stop the screw, and a mighty hissing and roaring of steam
followed when Christy transmitted it to the engine room. The order to
come about on the headway that remained succeeded, and the three shells
immediately exploded on the deck or in the hull of the enemy; but the
extent of the damage could not be estimated.

The three from the starboard guns were next sent on their mission; but
so far as could be seen no damage was done. The big Parrot was next
discharged; but the expert captain of the gun was unfortunate this time,
for the projectile dropped into the water beyond the steamer, though it
seemed to pass very near the stern. For the next half hour the midship
piece was kept busy, and its shots made destructive work about the deck
of the Tallahatchie.

"I think we had better finish this business at once, and before the
enemy has time to rig a new steering apparatus, Mr. Passford," said
Captain Breaker, as they came together on the quarter-deck.

"I think we can knock her all to pieces with the Parrot gun, sir,"
replied Christy.

"But it might take all day to do that; and the Tallahatchie exhibits an
astonishing power of resistance. Besides, she will soon repair her extra
wheel, and have it ready for use. I am inclined to believe that we are
wasting time, which will make it all the worse for us in the end,"
reasoned the commander. "I am prepared to board her, for I think she
must have lost a great many men."

"No doubt of it, sir," added the lieutenant.

"Lay her aboard on the port side, and have everything ready," continued
Captain Breaker.

Christy gave the necessary orders for this decided action, and the
officers and the crew seemed to be delighted with the prospect of a
hand-to-hand fight with the enemy. The lieutenant was not wholly
confident that the commander was right in his reasoning, but like a
loyal officer and a true sailor who knows no duty but obedience, he
heartily supported his superior. He walked the deck in the discharge of
his duty; but he was thinking of something since the order to board had
been given.

"Is there anything like a flank movement in boarding, Captain Breaker?"
he asked, as he halted at the side of the commander.

"Of course the officers do their best to flank the enemy after they
reach the deck," replied the captain, looking with some astonishment at
the lieutenant.

"I have reference to another sort of flanking," added the inquirer.

"Of course in a squadron some of the ships may be ordered to operate in
that manner; but a single ship acting against another can hardly do any
flanking."

"But I mean in boarding."

"You had better explain yourself a little more definitely, for I do not
understand you," replied the commander with a puzzled expression on his
face.

"We have one hundred and twenty men, with six absent on other duty,"
continued the lieutenant. "Judging by what I learned from Bokes,
I believe the Tallahatchie has less than a hundred, for he said she
expected to recruit twenty or thirty men at Nassau. She has lost more
men so far than we have, sir."

"Grant all that you say, and where does the flanking come in?"

"Your order is to board on the port side of the enemy, which will bring
the starboard side of the Bellevite alongside of her. Suppose you put
twenty men or more into the launch, on the port side of the ship, where
it cannot be seen by the enemy, just before the order to board is given.
At the right time let this boat hurry to the starboard side of the
Tallahatchie, where the twenty men or more will board, and take the
enemy in the rear."

The commander took off his cap and rubbed his bald head as if to
stimulate his ideas; but he made no answer then to the suggestion.

Paul Vapoor was driving the engine to its utmost, and the ship was
rapidly approaching the enemy.




CHAPTER XV

A FLANK MOVEMENT UNDERTAKEN


The commander of the enemy's ship could not know that the Bellevite
intended to board; but he could hardly help regarding with anxiety the
rapid progress she was making through the water. The loyal ship was
getting nearer to him, and Captain Rombold could not avoid seeing that
his situation was becoming desperate. It was absolutely necessary for
him to do something, unless he was ready to haul down his flag, which
Christy, for one, having been present at a battle with him, did not
expect him to do yet.

The executive officer kept a close watch upon the enemy, frequently
using his glass, even while he was discussing his suggestion with the
captain. There was great activity on deck near the stern of the
Tallahatchie, and her commander must have been at least hopeful that
the steering apparatus could be restored to some degree of efficiency.
In the meantime he could not bring his broadside guns to bear on the
Bellevite for he was unable to come about. The Federal ship was headed
directly for the enemy, and as Captain Breaker was impatient to board,
he could not fire the Parrot or the broadside battery without losing
time to put his vessel in position for throwing shot or shell.

"She is starting her screw again!" exclaimed Christy suddenly, as he
discovered the stirring up of the water astern of the enemy.

"I see she is," added the commander. "She has not got her extra wheel in
position yet, and probably she has pried her tiller over, or hauled it
over with a purchase. Make the course west, Mr. Passford."

Christy gave the order to the quartermaster, and without checking her
speed, the Bellevite described a quarter of a circle and came to the
desired course. The three guns of her port battery were immediately
discharged, loaded with shell as on the last occasion. One of them was
seen to explode in the midst of the gang of men who were at work on the
extra wheel. The other two burst in the air, too far off to do any
serious damage.

Very slowly, and apparently with great difficulty, the Tallahatchie
swung around, so that her port guns could be brought to bear upon the
Bellevite, and the two ships were abreast of each other so that neither
could rake the other. The loyal ship continued on her course to the
westward, and in ten minutes she had made three miles and a half, which
placed her out of the reach of the broadside guns of the Tallahatchie.

Christy did not abate his watchfulness over the movements of the enemy.
The shot from the sixty-pounder which had struck on the quarter of the
Confederate, had evidently created a great deal of confusion in that
part of the vessel. She had intended to describe a quarter of a circle
in order to render her port broadside guns available, but she had not
made more than the eighth of the circuit before she appeared to be going
ahead, and her direction was diagonal to that of the Bellevite.

"What does that mean?" asked Christy of the commander who stood near
him, though he had a very decided opinion of his own on the subject.

"It simply means that the last shot which struck her deranged whatever
expedient her captain had adopted for controlling the rudder," replied
the commander. "It failed when she was half round, and then she went
ahead."

"She has stopped her screw again, sir," added the first lieutenant.

"It is time for her to haul down her flag; but she does not seem to
be disposed to do it," continued Captain Breaker. "It is certainly a
hopeless case, and he ought to spare his men if not himself."

"Captain Rombold is not one of that sort. Though he is a Briton, he is a
'last ditch' man."

"Probably a very large majority of his ship's company are English, or
anything but Southern Americans, and he ought to have a proper regard
for them."

"I think he must see some chance of redeeming himself and his ship, for
I never met a more high-toned and gentlemanly man in all my life, and I
don't believe he would sacrifice his people unless with a hope that he
considers a reasonable one."

"Come about, Mr. Passford, and bear down on the enemy. Unless he works
his steering gear, we have her where she is utterly helpless," said the
commander.

"I wonder she does not get a couple of her heaviest guns in position on
her quarter-deck, and use them as stern chasers," said Christy, after he
had obeyed the captain's order, and the Bellevite was again headed
directly for the enemy.

"She appears to require all the space there for the work on her steering
appliances," replied Captain Breaker. "In ten minutes more I hope we
shall be able to board her; and I think we can then make very short work
of this business. About the flanking movement you propose, Mr. Passford,
I have never seen anything of the kind done, for most of my fighting
experience with blockade-runners has been at long range, though I was
in the navy during the Mexican war, where our operations were mostly
against fortifications and batteries."

"I do not consider the plan practicable except under peculiar
circumstances, like the present," returned Christy. "I am confident
that we outnumber the enemy, and the men for the flank movement are
available."

"If we were boarding in boats we should naturally attack both on the
starboard and port sides. But, Mr. Passford, the executive officer
cannot be spared to command the launch and its crew."

"I was not thinking of commanding the flanking party myself, sir."

"Neither can the officers of divisions be spared."

"I think I can find a volunteer, not in the sailing department, who
would conduct the movement to a successful issue, Captain," added
Christy, very confidently.

"Mr. Vapoor? But we cannot spare him from the engine room for a minute,"
protested the commander, who was well aware that the chief engineer was
the lieutenant's especial crony. "That would not do at all."

"I was not thinking of Mr. Vapoor, sir," interposed Christy.

"Who, then?" demanded the commander, lowering his spy-glass to look into
the young man's face.

"My associate in the expedition to Mobile Point, who did quite as much
as I did, if not more, to make it a success. I mean Mr. Graines, the
third assistant engineer. I know that he is a brave man and an officer
of excellent judgment," replied the lieutenant, with more enthusiasm
than he usually manifested when not in actual combat.

"Very well, Mr. Passford; I give you the order to carry out your plan,
and I hope it will work to your satisfaction. But you must not take more
than twenty men," said the commander in conclusion of the whole matter.

"Mr. Walbrook," called Christy without losing a moment in the
preparations for carrying out his scheme, which neither the captain nor
himself could say was an original idea.

The station of the second lieutenant at quarters is on the forecastle,
and of the third in the waist, or the middle of the ship. The third
lieutenant stepped forward at the call of the executive officer, touched
his cap, for "the honors due the quarter-deck cannot be dispensed with,"
even at exciting times.

Christy gave him the order to cast loose the launch, and have it in
readiness to lower into the water at a moment's notice; and Mr. Walbrook
proceeded to obey it without delay. The first lieutenant then called Mr.
Walters, a midshipman, and directed him to give his compliments to Mr.
Vapoor, and ask him if he could spare the third assistant engineer for
special duty for a couple of hours, more or less.

The messenger returned with the reply that the chief engineer would be
happy to detail Mr. Graines for special duty at once. In five minutes
more the assistant engineer appeared upon the quarter-deck in uniform,
and touched his cap to the executive officer.

"I am directed to report to you, Mr. Passford, for special duty," added
Graines.

"I wish you to assume this duty, Mr. Graines, as a volunteer, if at
all," replied Christy. "All the officers on deck are required at their
stations, and the commander has authorized what I call a flanking
movement, which I purpose to send out under your orders."

"I am very much obliged to you, Mr. Passford, for the honor you do me
in selecting me for this duty; and I accept the position with pleasure,"
answered the engineer, touching his cap again.

"But this is a fighting position, Mr. Graines," added Christy with a
smile.

"So much the better, sir; and if my education permitted, I should prefer
to be in the thickest of the fight rather than shut up in the engine
room," returned the engineer; and this was just the estimate the
lieutenant had made of him.

He had been well educated; but he had learned the trade of a machinist,
and the want of any naval training rather than his own inclination had
driven him into the engine room. But he had been three years at sea as a
sailor, and came home as second mate of an Indiaman.

Christy explained to him very fully the plan he had suggested, and
Graines readily grasped the idea. He provided himself with a cutlass and
revolver, and became very enthusiastic in the discharge of his special
duty. With the aid of the first lieutenant he selected the men for the
movement, though Christy would not permit the detail to consist of all
the best men, for that would not be fair or generous to the officers of
divisions. They were a fair average of the quality of the seamen.

The Tallahatchie made an attempt to come about in order to make her
guns available; but for some unknown reason it appeared to be a failure,
for she presently stopped her screw again. The Bellevite was rapidly
approaching her, and her commander evidently realized that the loyal
ship intended to board, for he made his preparations to meet the
onslaught.

Captain Rombold, in spite of his misfortune in the Dornoch the year
before, was inclined to disparage the bravery and skill of the officers
of the United States Navy, and to regard the seamen as inferior to those
of his own country, though he was too gentlemanly to express himself
directly to this effect. Christy had drawn this inference from what he
said in the conversations with him when Colonel Passford and he were
prisoners on board of the Chateaugay.

Holding this view, as Christy was confident he did, it was plain from
his action that he expected, or at least hoped, to win a victory in the
hand-to-hand encounter which was impending. Of course it was possible
that he might do so, and come into possession of the Bellevite, winch
had outsailed him, and disabled his ship for a combat at longer range.

As the Federal steamer drew near to the enemy a volley of musketry was
poured into her, which was promptly returned, and several of the crew on
both sides dropped to the deck, and were borne to the cockpit, though
the relative strength of each remained about as before, as nearly as the
officers on the quarter-deck of the Bellevite could judge.

The speed of the attacking ship had been greatly reduced as she neared
the Tallahatchie, and the launch was already in the water with its crew
of twenty men on board. The crew of the latter were armed with all the
boarding weapons in use, and before the hands on deck had fastened to
the enemy, the flanking party were working their heavy craft around the
stern of the steamer.

The loyal ship came in contact with the side of the Confederate. The
grappling irons were cast, and in an incredibly short space of time the
two vessels were firmly attached to each other. The supreme moment had
come, as all thought, but for some reason not apparent, the command to
board was withheld. Captain Breaker who stood on the quarter deck with
Christy, appeared to be perplexed. He saw that the seamen of the enemy
were drawn up on the starboard side, instead of at the port bulwarks.




CHAPTER XVI

THE LIEUTENANT'S DARING EXPLOIT


Captain Breaker was perplexed when his ship came alongside the enemy and
was made fast to her, for things were not working according to the usual
rules made and provided for such occasions, and Captain Rombold was
evidently resorting to some unusual tactics. The two steamers were of
about the same height above water, so their decks were very nearly on a
level.

The men with muskets on both sides were reloading their weapons, and
those with navy revolvers were discharging them at the enemy; but the
officers of divisions concealed their men behind the bulwarks when the
order to board did not come.

Christy saw the perplexity of the commander at his side, and it was
evident to both of them that some unusual strategy was to be adopted,
and Captain Breaker did not intend to fall into a trap if he could avoid
it. They could see nothing that looked suspicious except the position of
the enemy's force on the starboard side of the ship.

Before the captain could stop him, the first lieutenant had leaped into
the mizzen rigging, and ascended far enough to obtain a view of the
quarter deck over the bulwarks, while the commander walked aft far
enough to accomplish the same purpose by looking through the aperture
made by the shot which had carried away the wheel of the enemy, without
exposing himself to the fire of the seamen on board of her.

Christy's action occupied but the fraction of a minute; but several
muskets and revolvers were discharged at him in this brief time. Letting
go his hold of the rigging, he dropped to the deck before the captain
could see what he was doing; and it was supposed that the daring officer
had been brought down by the shots fired at him.

"Second division, follow me!" he cried, as he picked up the cutlass he
had dropped.

About thirty men rushed to the quarter-deck, hurried on by Mr. Walbrook.
Christy leaped upon the rail, with the cutlass in his right hand, and
the revolver in his left, and dropped down upon the quarter deck of
the Tallahatchie, upon a squad of seamen who were lying low behind a
thirty-pounder, whose carriage was close to the bulwark, the piece
pointed forward.

The first lieutenant had seen from his position in the mizzen rigging
the trap which had been set for the crew of the Bellevite. They were
expected to leap to the rail, and cut away the boarding nettings--not
always used, but were on this occasion--and then drop down to the deck.
The first command would naturally have been to "Repel boarders;" but
this was not given, and no fighting was to be done till the boarders
reached the ship, when the thirty-pounder, doubtless loaded with grape
or shrapnel, was to mow down the invaders of the deck.

Christy's men poured down after him, and before the crew of the gun, who
had no doubt been ordered to conceal themselves, could get upon their
feet they were cut down by the impetuous tars from the Bellevite. It
was the work of but a moment. Christy had taken some pains to have the
opinion of Captain Rombold that American seamen were inferior to British
circulated, and the men evidently intended to prove that they were the
equals of any sailors afloat.

"Swing the muzzle of the gun to starboard!" shouted Christy, as he took
hold with his own hands to point the piece, which was in position in a
moment.

Captain Rombold stood but a short distance from the stump of the mizzen
mast with a cutlass in his hand. He rushed forward to rally his crew;
and he seemed to be rendered desperate by the failure of the scheme to
which he had resorted. At this moment Christy heard Captain Breaker
shout the order to board, and the men were springing to the rail, and
tearing away the boarding netting.

"Stand by the lanyard!" cried the first lieutenant on the quarter-deck
of the enemy, and he had sighted the piece himself in the absence of any
regular gun crew. "Fire!"

The cloud of smoke concealed all of the deck forward of the mizzen mast,
and Christy could not see what effect had been produced by the charge of
grape, or whatever it was. At any rate the men the commander had rallied
for a charge did not appear.

The smoke was blown away in a minute or so, and the Bellevite's sailors
had made a lodgment on the deck of the enemy. They were led by the
officers of the divisions, and were rushing over to the starboard, where
the enemy's men had been concentrated. They were brave men, whether
English or not, and the moment they could see the boarders, they rushed
at them by command of their officers; but they pushed forward, as it
were, out of a heap of killed and wounded, those who had fallen by the
grape-shot intended to decimate the ranks of the loyal band.

Christy rallied his men as soon as they had done their work in the
vicinity of the thirty-pounder, and ordered them to join their division
under the command of the third lieutenant. But the seamen on the part of
the Confederates seemed to be dispirited to some extent by the bad
beginning they had made, and by the heap of slain near them. Captain
Rombold lay upon the deck, propped up against the mizzen mast. He looked
as pale as death itself; but he was still directing the action, giving
orders to his first lieutenant. Two of his officers were near him, but
both of them appeared to be severely wounded.

The battle was raging with fearful energy on the part of the loyal tars,
and with hardly less vigor on the part of the enemy, though the latter
fought in a sort of desperate silence. The wounded commander was doing
his best to reinspire them; but his speech was becoming feeble, and
perhaps did more to discourage than to strengthen them.

At this stage of the action Graines, closely followed by his twenty men,
sprang over the starboard bulwarks, and fell upon the enemy in the rear.
Finding themselves between an enemy in front and rear, they could do no
more; for it was sure death to remain where they were, and they fled
precipitately to the forecastle.

"Quarter!" shouted these men, and the same cry came from the other parts
of the deck.

"Haul down the flag, Mr. Brookfield!" said the commander in a feeble
tone.

The first lieutenant of the Tallahatchie, with his handkerchief tied
around his leg, directed a wounded quartermaster to strike the colors,
and three tremendous cheers from the victorious crew of the Bellevite
rent the air. Captain Breaker had come on board of the enemy, sword in
hand, and had conducted himself as bravely as the unfortunate commander
of the prize.

The moment he saw Christy he rushed to him with both hands extended, and
with a smile upon his face. The four hands were interlocked, but not a
word was spoken for the feelings of both were too big for utterance.
A loyal quartermaster was ordered to hoist the American ensign over the
Confederate flag which had just been hauled down.

The situation on board of the prize was so terrible that there was no
danger of an attempt to recapture the vessel, and immediate attention
was given to the care of the wounded, the survivors in each vessel
performing this duty under its own officers.

Mr. Brookfield, the executive officer of the Tallahatchie, was wounded
in the leg below the knee, but he did not regard himself as disabled,
and superintended the work of caring for the sufferers. Mr. Hungerford,
the second lieutenant, appeared to be the only principal officer who had
escaped uninjured; while Mr. Lenwold, the third lieutenant, had his arm
in a sling in consequence of a wound received from a splinter in the
early part of the action. These gentlemen, who had seemed like demons
only a few minutes before, so earnest were they in the discharge of
their duties, were now as tender and devoted as so many women.

Captain Breaker directed his own officers to return to the deck of the
Bellevite and provide for the wounded there; but they were few in number
compared with those strewed about the deck of the prize. While the
Confederate ship had been unable to discharge her guns, and the officers
were using their utmost exertions to repair the disabled steering
apparatus, the Bellevite had had a brief intermission of the din of
battle, during which the wounded had been carried below where the
surgeon and his mates had attended to their injuries.

It was ascertained that only six men had been killed during the action,
and their silent forms had been laid out in the waist. Seventeen men
were in their berths in the hospital or on the tables of the surgeon,
eight of whom had been wounded by the muskets and revolvers of the enemy
as the ship came alongside the prize. Four others had just been borne to
the cockpit with wounds from pikes and cutlasses.

The loss of the enemy was at least triple that of the Bellevite, a
large number of whom had fallen before the murderous discharge of the
thirty-pounder on the quarter-deck, which had been intended to decimate
the ranks of the loyal boarders; and, raking the column as the men
poured into the ship, it would probably have laid low more than one in
ten of the number. This was an original scheme of Captain Rombold; and
but for the coolness and deliberation of Captain Breaker, and the daring
of his chief officer, it must have been a terrible success. As it was,
the Confederate commander, who was the only foreign officer on board,
"had been hoisted by his own petard."

Christy had done all that required his attention on board of the
Bellevite, and he paid another visit to the deck of the Tallahatchie,
where he desired to obtain some information which would enable him the
better to understand the action which had just been fought. He was
especially anxious to ascertain the condition of the Armstrong gun which
had been disabled by the first shot of Blumenhoff with the midship
Parrot. As he went on deck, he saw Captain Rombold, seated in an
arm-chair his cabin steward had brought up for him, with his right
leg resting on a camp stool.

"Good-morning, Mr. Passford," said the wounded commander, with a slight
smile on his pale face. "_Comment allez-vous ce matin?_" (How do you do
this morning?)

"_Trs bien, Monsieur le capitaine. Je suis bien fch que vous tes
bless._ (Very well, Captain. I am very sorry that you are wounded.) You
need the attention of the surgeon, sir," replied the loyal officer.

"I take my turn with my men, Mr. Passford, and my officers do the same.
The fortune of war is with you again, and I congratulate you on the
success which has attended you. I saw that it was you who upset my plan
for receiving your boarders. I was confident, with that device of mine,
I should be able to beat off your boarders, and I intended to carry your
deck by boarding you in turn. I think your commander can give you the
credit of winning the victory for the Bellevite in his despatches; for
I should have killed more of your men with that thirty-pounder than you
did of mine, for I should have raked the column. You saved the day for
the United States when you ran up the mizzen rigging and unmasked my
battery. You are a gentleman and a magnanimous enemy, Mr. Passford, and
I congratulate you on your promotion, which is sure to come. But you
look pale this morning."

"One of your revolvers had very nearly pinked me when I was in the
rigging; for the ball passed between my arm and my side, and took out
a piece of the former, Captain Rombold," replied Christy, who was
beginning to feel languid from the loss of blood, for the drops of red
fluid were dropping from the ends of his fingers. "But you exaggerate
the service I rendered; for Captain Breaker, suspecting something from
the position in which your men were drawn up, had dropped a hawser port,
and intended to look through the aperture made by one of our solid
shots. He would have discovered your trap."

"He could not have seen the gun or the men." At that moment Christy sank
down upon the deck.




CHAPTER XVII

A MAGNANIMOUS ENEMY


It had not occurred to Christy Passford before Captain Rombold mentioned
it that his daring exploit had in any especial manner assisted in the
final and glorious result of the action. He was confident that, if he
had not unmasked the plan of the Confederate commander, Captain Breaker
would have discovered it, and perhaps had already done so when, without
any order, he had impetuously leaped over the rail, followed by a
portion of the second division, urged forward by lieutenant Walbrook,
to capture the gun before it could be discharged.

He realized, as the thought flashed through his brain like a bolt of
lightning, that the Confederate commander's scheme must be counteracted
on the instant, or Captain Breaker might give the command to board, for
which the impatient seamen on his deck were waiting. He had accomplished
his purpose in a few seconds; and the enemy's force, huddled together on
the starboard side, were suddenly piled up in a heap on the planks,
weltering in their gore, and a large proportion of them killed.

Captain Rombold was standing abreast of the stump of his mizzen mast
observing the whole affair, and he had a better opportunity to observe
it than any other person on the deck of either ship. He had ordered up
his men to receive the boarders on the quarter-deck when the gun was
discharged, and before he believed it could be done. Christy had only to
reverse the direction of the carriage, hastily sight the piece, and pull
the lanyard. The missiles with which the thirty-pounder was loaded cut
down the advancing column, rushing to obey their commander's order, and
then carried death and destruction into the crowd of seamen in their
rear.

"Good Heavens, Mr. Passford!" exclaimed the Confederate commander,
rising with difficulty from his seat. "You are badly wounded!"

"Not badly, Captain Rombold," replied the young officer, gathering up
his remaining strength, and resting his right arm upon the planks.

"But my dear fellow, you are bleeding to death, and the blood is running
in a stream from the ends of the fingers on your left hand!" continued
the Confederate commander, apparently as full of sympathy and kindness
as though the sufferer had been one of his own officers. "Gill!" he
called to his steward, who was assisting in the removal of the injured
seamen. "My compliments to Dr. Davidson, and ask him to come on deck
instantly."

Christy had hardly noticed the ball which passed through the fleshy part
of his arm above the elbow at the time it struck him. While he kept the
wounded member raised the blood was absorbed by his clothing. It had
been painful from the first; but the degree of fortitude with which a
wounded person in battle endures suffering amounting to agony is almost
incredible. So many had been killed, and so many had lost legs and arms
on both sides, that it seemed weak and pusillanimous to complain, or
even mention what he regarded as only a slight wound.

"This is the executive officer of the Bellevite, Dr. Davidson," said
Captain Rombold when the surgeon appeared, not three minutes after he
had been sent for. "But he is a gentleman in every sense of the word,
and the bravest of the brave. It was he who defeated my scheme; but I
admire and respect him. Attend to him at once, doctor."

"If he saved the day for the Yankees, it is a pity that his wound
had not killed him," added the surgeon, with a pleasant smile on his
handsome face. "But that is taking the patriotic rather than the humane
view of his case."

"It would have been better for us, and especially for me, if he had been
killed; but I am sincerely glad that he was not," added the commander.

"Thank you, Captain Rombold," said Christy. "You are the most
magnanimous of enemies, and it is a pleasure to fight such men as you
are."

"Good-morning, Mr. Passford," continued Dr. Davidson, as he took the
right hand of the patient. "I like to serve a brave man, on whichever
side he fights, when the action is finished."

"You are very kind, doctor," added Christy faintly.

With the assistance of Gill, the surgeon removed the coat of the
lieutenant, and tore off the shirt from the wounded arm.

"Not a bad wound at all, Mr. Passford," said Dr. Davidson, after he had
examined it. "But it has been too long neglected, and it would not have
given you half the trouble if you had taken it to your surgeon as soon
as the action was decided. You have lost some blood, and that makes you
faint. You will have to lie in your berth a few days, which might have
been spared to you if you had had it attended to sooner."

The doctor sent for needed articles; and as soon as Gill brought them
he dressed the wound, after giving the patient a restorative which made
him feel much better. While the surgeon was still at work on his arm,
Captain Breaker rushed in desperate haste to the scene of operations,
for some one had informed him that the surgeon of the Tallahatchie was
dressing a wound on his executive officer.

"Merciful Heaven, Mr. Passford!" exclaimed the loyal commander. "Are you
wounded?"

"Nothing but a scratch in the arm, Captain. Don't bother about me,"
replied Christy, whose spirits had been built up by the medicine Dr.
Davidson had given him; but he did not know that it was half brandy, the
odor of which was disguised by the mixture of some other ingredient.

"I did not know that you were wounded, my dear boy," said his commander
tenderly; so tenderly that the patient could hardly restrain the tears
which were struggling for an outflow.

"Mr. Watts," called Captain Breaker to the chief steward of the
Bellevite, who happened to be the first person he saw on the deck of his
own ship.

"On deck, Captain," replied the steward, touching his cap to the
commander.

"My compliments to Dr. Linscott, and ask him to come to the deck of the
prize without any delay," added the captain.

Such a message implied an emergency; and the surgeon of the Bellevite,
who was a man well along in years, hastened with all the speed he could
command to the place indicated. The captain, who had heard the name of
the Confederate medical officer, introduced his own surgeon, with an
apology for summoning him.

"My executive officer, the patient in your hands, is the son of my best
friend on earth, for whom I sailed for years before the war, and I hope
you will pardon my great anxiety for your patient, Dr. Davidson,"
said he.

"The most natural thing in the world, Captain Breaker, and no apology or
explanation is necessary," politely added the Confederate surgeon, as he
and Dr. Linscott shook hands. "My patient is not severely wounded; but I
should be happy to have you examine his injury. It was too long
neglected, and he is rather weak from the loss of blood."

"Mr. Passford was too proud a young man to mention his wound or to call
upon the surgeon of his ship; but I was determined that he should no
longer be neglected," interposed Captain Rombold.

Christy was aware that the two commanders had never met before, and he
introduced them while Dr. Linscott was examining his arm. They were both
brave and noble men, and each received the other in the politest and
most gentlemanly manner. It was evident to all who witnessed the
interview that they met with mutual respect, though half an hour before
they had been engaged in a desperate fight the one against the other.
But enemies can be magnanimous to each other without any sacrifice of
their principles on either side.

"I thank you most heartily, Captain Rombold, for your kindness to my
principal officer; and if the opportunity is ever presented to me,
I shall reciprocate to the extent of my ability," continued Captain
Breaker. "You have been more than magnanimous; you have been a
self-sacrificing Christian, for you have required your surgeon to
bind up the wound of an enemy before he assuaged your own. This is
Christianity in war; and I shall strive to emulate your noble example."

"You are extremely considerate, Captain; and we are friends till
the demands of duty require us to become technical enemies on the
quarter-deck each of his own ship," said Captain Rombold, as he grasped
the hand of the loyal commander.

"I heartily approve of the treatment of my friend Dr. Davidson, and
fully indorse his opinion that the wound of Mr. Passford is not a
dangerous or very severe one," interposed Dr. Linscott. "I agree with
him that the patient had better spend a couple of days or more in his
berth."

The Confederate surgeon had finished the dressing of Christy's wound,
and he was in a hurry to return to his duty in the cockpit. He shook
hands with Dr. Linscott, and both of them hastened to their posts. The
patient had been seated on a bench, and Captain Rombold had returned to
his former position. He had tied his handkerchief around his thigh, and
both of them appeared to be very comfortable.

"Well, Mr. Passford, if you are ready to return to the Bellevite, I will
assist you to the ward room," said Captain Breaker.

"Excuse me, Captain, if I detain you a few minutes, for I desire to
settle a point in dispute between Mr. Passford and myself, though it is
doubtless his extreme modesty which creates this difference between us,"
interposed the Confederate commander.

He proceeded to state his view of the exploit of Christy, by which he
had rendered inutile the scheme to slaughter the loyal boarders.

"I was absolutely delighted, Captain Breaker, when I realized that you
intended to board the Tallahatchie." he continued. "I was confident that
I should defeat your boarders, and board and carry your deck in my turn.
I have not yet changed my view of the situation. You can judge of my
consternation when I saw Mr. Passford leap into the mizzen rigging with
the agility of a cat, and especially when the order to board my ship was
withheld."

"Mr. Passford acted without orders, for I should hardly have sent him
into the rigging while we were alongside, for it was almost sure death,
for your men, armed with muskets and revolvers, were all looking for the
firing of the thirty-pounder," added Captain Breaker.

"He was as nimble as a cat, and it seemed to me that he was twice as
quick. But all he needed to unearth my scheme was a single glance at
the gun and its crew on the quarter-deck. In the twinkling of an eye he
dropped to the deck, called his boarders, and leaped over the rail into
our midst. It was the most daring and quickly executed manoeuvre I ever
observed," continued the Confederate commander with enthusiasm.

"I quite agree with you, Captain Rombold," replied Captain Breaker,
as he looked with an affectionate expression upon the pale face of the
patient.

"Now, Mr. Passford chooses to regard his brilliant exploit as a matter
of little consequence, for he declares that you had discovered, or would
have discovered, my plan to annihilate your boarders."

"Mr. Passford is entirely in the wrong so far as I am concerned,"
protested Captain Breaker with a good deal of earnestness. "To make the
matter clear, I will explain my own actions. When the Bellevite ranged
alongside the Tallahatchie, everything was in readiness for boarding.
I was about to give the order to do this when I discovered that the crew
of your ship were drawn up on the starboard side, instead of the port,
and it suggested to me that something was wrong, and I withheld the
command. In order to obtain more information, I went further aft, where
I hoped to get a view of a portion of the deck of your ship. I had
raised a hawser port with the assistance of a quartermaster; but I could
see only the wreck of your spare wheel. At this moment Mr. Passford was
in the mizzen rigging. He did all; I did nothing."

"I hope your report of the action will do him full justice, for he
deserves promotion," added Captain Rombold.

"My admiration of the conduct of Mr. Passford is equal to yours."

They separated after some further conversation, and her commander and
Christy returned to the Bellevite.




CHAPTER XVIII

THE REIGN OF CHRISTIANITY


Captain Breaker took Christy by his right arm to support him as they
returned to the deck of the Bellevite, and to assist him over the
bulwarks. The wounded had all been cared for, and the crew were swabbing
up the deck; but the moment they discovered the captain and the
executive officer on the rail, they suspended their labor and all eyes
were fixed upon the latter.

"Three cheers for Mr. Passford!" shouted the quartermaster who had been
at the wheel when Christy sprang into the mizzen rigging.

Three heartier cheers were never given on the deck of any ship than
those which greeted the hero of the action as he appeared on the rail.
Not satisfied with this demonstration, they all swung their caps, and
then gave two volleys more. There was not a man that did not take part
in this triple salute, and even the officers joined with the seamen in
this tribute.

"I hope Mr. Passford is not badly wounded, sir," said Quartermaster
Thompson, touching his cap most respectfully. "And I speak for the whole
ship's company, sir."

"Mr. Passford is not very severely wounded, Thompson," replied the
commander, while Christy was acknowledging the salute. "He did not
mention the fact that he was hurt, and lost more blood than was
necessary, so that he is very weak."

The quartermaster reported the answer of the captain to the ship's
company, whereupon they gave three more cheers, as Christy and his
supporter descended to the deck; and the hero acknowledged the salute.
At the companion they encountered Dr. Linscott, who had just come on
deck from the cockpit. Graines was standing near, waiting for an
opportunity to speak to his late associate in the expedition.

"You gave us a bad fright, Mr. Passford," said the surgeon, as he took
the right hand of the wounded officer. "But you will do very well now.
I have something here which will keep you comfortable;" and he proceeded
to place the left arm in a sling, which he adjusted with great care,
passing a band from it around his body so as to prevent the member from
swinging, or otherwise getting out of position.

"Is it necessary that I should take to my berth, Dr. Linscott?" asked
the patient. "I am feeling very nicely now; and since my arm was dressed
it gives me very little pain."

"Dr. Davidson ordered you to your berth because you were so weak you
could not stand," replied the surgeon.

"But I have got over that, and I feel stronger now."

"We will see about that later, Mr. Passford. Captain Breaker, all our
wounded except a few light cases, which my mates can treat as well as I
can, are disposed of," added the doctor.

"I am very glad to hear it," replied the captain.

"May I stay on deck, doctor?" asked Christy, who did not like the idea
of being shut up in his stateroom while the arrangements for the
disposal of the prize were in progress.

"You may for the present if you feel able to do so," answered the
surgeon. "But you must have a berth-sack or an easy chair on deck, and
keep very quiet."

"Punch!" called the commander; and this was the name of the cabin
steward, who was not, however, as bibulous as his surname indicated.
"Pass the word for Punch."

The steward, like everybody else on board able to be there, was on deck,
and immediately presented himself.

"Bring up the large easy-chair at my desk, and place it abreast of the
mizzen mast," added the commander.

Something else called off the attention of Captain Breaker at this
moment, and the surgeon remained in conversation till Punch reported the
chair in position. Dr. Linscott conducted Christy to it, and adjusted
him comfortably, sending for a blanket to cover his lower limbs. The
captain soon returned, and saw that the patient was easy in a position
where he could see all that transpired on the deck.

"As you have finished your duties on board of the Bellevite, I desire to
reciprocate the kindness of Captain Rombold in attending to Mr. Passford
when perhaps he needed the attention of his own surgeon more than our
patient, and I desire to have you dress the Confederate commander's
wound," said Captain Breaker.

"With all my heart!" exclaimed the surgeon earnestly. "I will be with
you in a moment, as soon as I procure my material;" and he hurried
below.

"You will find me with Captain Rombold," added the commander, as he
hastened to the deck of the prize.

"I am glad to see you again, Captain Breaker," said the Confederate
chief very politely.

"I have come to tender the services of our surgeon, who has disposed
of all our seriously injured men, to dress your wound, in the first
instance, for I fear you were more in need of such assistance than my
officer when you so magnanimously called Dr. Davidson to dress Mr.
Passford's wound. He will be here in a few minutes," returned Captain
Breaker, proceeding to business at once.

"I am exceedingly obliged to you, Captain, for I am beginning to feel
the necessity of attending to my wound. The thirty-pounder, which was
to have reduced the ranks of your crew by one-half, as I am assured it
would have done, made terrible havoc among my own men. In addition to
the dead who have already been committed to the deep, we have a great
number wounded," replied Captain Rombold. "The cockpit is full, and I
have given up my cabin to the surgeon, who is extremely busy. I accept
the services of Dr. Linscott very gratefully."

"He is extremely happy to serve you."

By this time the surgeon of the Bellevite appeared with one of his
mates, and some pleasant words passed between him and his new patient.

"Now, where is your wound, Captain Rombold?" asked Dr. Linscott.

"In the right thigh," replied the patient; and the bullet hole in his
trousers indicated the precise spot.

"It will be necessary to remove your clothing, Captain," continued the
surgeon.

"My cabin is already turned into a hospital, and Dr. Davidson is hard
at work there," replied the patient. "I shall have to send for a
berth-sack, and let you operate on deck, for"--

"My cabin is entirely at your service, Captain Rombold," interposed
the commander of the Bellevite. "It will afford me the very greatest
pleasure in the world to give it up to you."

"Oh, no, Captain!" exclaimed the sufferer, as he really was by this
time. "That is too great a sacrifice."

"Not at all; do me the very great favor to accept the use of my cabin,"
persisted Captain Breaker. "How shall we move him, doctor?"

"Call four of your men; we will carry him to your cabin in his chair,
just as he sits; and we can do it without incommoding him at all,"
answered Dr. Linscott, as he sent his mate to call the men required.

"Really, Captain,"--the sufferer began, but rather faintly.

"The surgeon thinks you had better not talk any more, Captain Rombold,"
interposed the commander. "Here are the men, and we will handle you as
tenderly as an infant."

"You are as kind as the mother of the infant," added the sufferer with a
slight smile; but he made no further opposition.

The four men lifted the chair, and the doctor instructed them how to
carry it. The Bellevite had been moved aft a little so as to bring the
gangways of the two ships abreast of each other. The commander was so
interested and so full of sympathy for his injured enemy, now a friend,
that he could not refrain from assisting with his own hands, and he
directed the operations of the seamen when they came to the steps. They
lifted the chair down to the deck of the ship, and then it was borne to
the captain's cabin.

The wounded commander was placed in the broad berth of the cabin, and
the seamen sent on deck. Dr. Linscott, with the assistance of his mate,
proceeded to remove the clothing of the patient, Captain Breaker aiding
as he would hardly have thought of doing if the sufferer had been one of
his own officers. The injury proved to be of about the same character as
that of Christy; it was a flesh wound, but the ball had ploughed deeper
than in his case, and was therefore severe. A stimulating remedy was
given to the patient, and the doctor dressed the wound with the utmost
care, as he always did, whether the patient was a commander or a
coal-heaver from the bunkers.

The sufferer had revived somewhat under the influence of the medicine
administered; and after taking the hand of Captain Rombold, with a
hearty wish for his early recovery, the captain of the Bellevite took
his leave, and went on deck.

He proceeded first to the chair of the wounded lieutenant, reporting to
him the condition of the Confederate commander. Christy was extremely
glad to hear so favorable a report of the condition of the patient, and
so expressed himself in the heartiest terms. "Federal" and "Confederate"
seemed to be words without any meaning at the present time, for all had
become friends. The officers were vying with each other in rendering
kindly offices to the vanquished, and even the seamen were doing what
they could to fraternize with the crew of the Tallahatchie, while both
were engaged in removing the evidences of the hard-fought action.

It was now only nine o'clock in the morning, and six hours had elapsed
since the prize, with the West Wind in tow, had sailed from Mobile
Point on what had proved to be her last voyage in the service of the
Confederacy. Events had succeeded each other with great rapidity, as it
may require a whole volume to report in detail a naval battle begun and
ended in the short space of an hour.

The men were piped to breakfast; and during the meal there was an
interchange of good feeling when it was found that the crew of the
Tallahatchie had only a short supply of coffee and bread, intending to
supply these articles at Nassau. The loyal tars were as magnanimous as
the officers of both ships had proved themselves to be; and they passed
the needed articles over the rails, till they exhausted their own
supply, hungry as they were after six hours of active duty. The
commander discovered what his men were doing; and he ordered the rations
to be doubled, besides sending a quantity of ship bread and coffee on
board of the prize. War had mantled his savage front, and Christianity
was presiding over the conduct of those who had so recently been the
most determined enemies.

There was something forward of the foremast to remind all who approached
of the battle which had been fought. It was a spare sail which covered
the silent and motionless forms of those whose loyalty to their country
had led them through the gates of death to "the undiscovered country,
from whose bourn no traveller returns," but whose fadeless record is
inscribed in the hearts of a grateful nation.

During or after a severe action on board a ship of war, the dead are
usually disposed of with but little or no ceremony, as the exigency of
the hour may require, as had been done on board of the prize. But
Captain Breaker was more considerate, as the conditions permitted him to
be; and the killed had been sewed up in hammocks, properly weighted.

"All hands to bury the dead;" piped the boatswain of the Bellevite, when
breakfast was finished.

By this time the deck had been cleaned up, and dried off under the warm
sun which had dissipated the fog and the morning mists. The bodies of
the slain had been previously placed at the port gangway, covered with
the American flag. The seamen removed their caps, the commander read the
service, and the bodies were committed to the deep. The officers and
seamen witnessed the ceremony with uncovered heads, and in reverent
silence.




CHAPTER XIX

COLONEL HOMER PASSFORD OF GLENFIELD


As soon as the battle on the deck of the Tallahatchie had been decided,
Graines, in command of the flanking party, had returned to the engine
room of the Bellevite. He and his men had fought bravely and effectively
in the action, though the full effect of the movement under his charge
could not be realized in the change of circumstances. The engine of the
ship had now cooled off, and Paul Vapoor hastened to the deck to see his
friend and crony, the news of whose wound had been conveyed to the
engine room in due time.

He was heartily rejoiced to find that it was no worse, and he had news
for the patient. Just before the burial of the dead he had been sent by
the commander to examine and report upon the condition of the engine of
the prize. Captain Rombold had protected it with chain cables dropped
over the side, so that it remained uninjured, and the British engineers
declared that it was in perfect working order.

"But whom do you suppose I saw on board the prize, Christy?" asked the
chief engineer, after he had incidentally stated the condition of the
engine.

"I cannot guess; but it may have been my cousin Corny Passford, though
he has always been in the military service of the Confederacy," replied
the wounded lieutenant.

"It was not Corny, but his father," added Paul.

"His father!" exclaimed Christy. "Uncle Homer Passford?"

"It was he; I know him well, for I used to meet him at Glenfield in
other days. I am as familiar with his face as with that of your father,
though I have not seen either of them for over three years."

"Where was he? What was he doing?" asked Christy curiously.

"He was just coming up from below; and Mr. Hungerford, the second
lieutenant, told me he had been turned out of the captain's cabin, which
had been made into a hospital for the wounded," added Paul. "I had no
opportunity to speak to him, for he averted his gaze and moved off in
another direction as soon as he saw me. He looked pale and thin, as
though he had recently been very sick."

"Poor Uncle Homer!" exclaimed the lieutenant. "He has been very
unfortunate. The last time I saw him, I conducted him to my father's
place at Bonnydale, after he had been a prisoner on board of the
Chateaugay. He was on parole then, and I suppose he and Captain Rombold
were both exchanged."

"Doubtless he will tell you all about it when you see him, as you will
soon."

"He had his eyes opened when he passed through New York City with me,
for he did not find the grass growing in the streets, as he had
expected, in spite of all I had said to him at sea. He was astonished
and confounded when he found business more lively than ever before
there; but he remained as virulent a rebel as ever; and I am sure he
regards it as a pious duty to stand by the Southern Confederacy as long
as there is anything left of it. I know no man more sincerely religious
than Uncle Homer."

"He is as good a man as ever walked the earth," added Paul heartily.

"For his sake, if for no other reason, I shall rejoice when this war is
over," said Christy, with a very sad expression on his pale face.

"Was Mr. Graines of any use to you on deck, Christy?" asked the chief
engineer, as he turned to take his leave.

"He behaved himself like a loyal officer, and fought like a tiger on the
deck of the Tallahatchie. I shall give a very good report of him to the
captain for his conduct in the action, and for his valuable services in
the expedition last night. I did not over-estimate him when I selected
him for both of the positions to which he was appointed."

"He wants to see you, and I told him he should come on deck when I
returned," added Paul, as he took the hand of Christy and retired.

"How do you feel now, Mr. Passford?" asked Captain Breaker, coming to
his side the moment the chief engineer left him.

"I feel quite weak, but my arm does not bother me much. The Confederate
surgeon did a good job when he dressed it," replied Christy with a
smile.

"I will get him to send you a second dose of the restorative that
strengthened you before," said the commander, as he pencilled a note,
which he tore out of his memorandum book, and sent it by Punch to Dr.
Davidson.

"Mr. Vapoor brought me a piece of news, Captain," continued Christy.
"Uncle Homer Passford is on board of the Tallahatchie."

"Your uncle!" exclaimed the commander. "I supposed he was still on
parole at the house of your father."

"I did not know to the contrary myself, for I have had no letter from my
father for a long time. He and Captain Rombold must have been exchanged
some time ago. Mr. Vapoor says my uncle looks pale and thin, as though
he had recently been very sick."

"I am very sorry for him, for he was the equal of your father in every
respect, except his loyalty to his true country," added the captain.

"Poor Uncle Homer!" exclaimed Christy, as he wiped a tear from his eye.
"He was the guest of Captain Rombold; but he has been turned out of his
cabin to make room for the wounded."

"Dr. Linscott with his two mates has gone to the assistance of Dr.
Davidson, whose hands are more than full, and perhaps he will see your
uncle. Where is he now?" inquired the captain.

"Mr. Vapoor saw him on the deck, but he did not speak to him, for Uncle
Homer avoided him. The ward room of the prize has at least two wounded
officers in it, and I don't know how many more, so that my poor uncle
has no place to lay his head if he is sick," said Christy, full of
sympathy for his father's brother.

"That will never do!" exclaimed the commander bruskly. "He shall have a
place to lay his head, sick or well. Captain Rombold occupies one of the
staterooms in my cabin, and your uncle shall have the other."

"But where will you berth, captain?" demanded Christy.

"No matter where! I will go and find your uncle at once;" and Christy
saw him next mounting the gangway steps.

The commander had no difficulty in finding the gentleman he sought; for
he was wandering about the deck of the prize, and no one seemed to take
any notice of him. He had been the honored guest of Captain Rombold,
though he had hardly shown himself on deck since the steamer left
Mobile, and few of the ship's company seemed to know who he was.

"Good-morning, Colonel Passford," said Captain Breaker, as he confronted
him in the midst of the ruins of the spare wheel, the wrecks of the
mizzen mast, and the bulwarks on the quarterdeck.

"Good-morning, Captain Breaker," replied the planter, taking the offered
hand of the commander, with a feeble effort to smile. "Of course I knew
that you were near, for you have given abundant proofs of your presence
on board of this vessel."

"But we meet now as friends, and not as enemies. I know that you have
done your duty to your country as you understand it, and I have done the
same," continued the commander, still holding the hand of the colonel.

"You have been very kind to Captain Rombold, Gill informs me, and"--

"He set the example for me, and I have striven to follow it," interposed
the captain. "But his generosity was first exercised in behalf of your
nephew, Christy."

"The steward informed me that Christy had been wounded; and Captain
Rombold assured me that the Tallahatchie was captured in consequence of
a very daring act on the part of my nephew," added the planter.

"I should not state it quite so strongly as that, though his action
certainly enabled us to capture the ship sooner, and with less loss on
our part than would otherwise have been the case. As to the ultimate
result of the battle, Captain Rombold and myself would disagree. But
with your assent, Colonel Passford, I think we had better cease to
discuss the action, which is now an event of the past. I am informed
that you have been compelled to leave the captain's cabin."

"And I cannot find a resting place in the ward room or steerage," added
the planter.

"I have come on board of the prize to invite you to share my cabin with
Captain Rombold, for I have two staterooms," said Captain Breaker,
suddenly changing the subject of conversation.

"You are very kind, my dear sir; but your arrangement would incommode
yourself," suggested the colonel.

"My cabin is quite large, and I shall be able to make ample
accommodations for myself," persisted the commander, as he took the arm
of the planter. "Permit me to conduct you to your new quarters."

"As I am once more a prisoner"--

"Hardly," interposed the captain, as he led the planter to the gangway,
"I shall regard you as a non-combatant, at least for the present; and I
desire only to make you comfortable. The flag-officer must decide upon
your status."

Colonel Passford allowed himself to be conducted to the deck of the
Bellevite; and he was no stranger on board of the ship, for when she
was a yacht he had made several excursions in her in company with his
family. The first person he observed was his nephew, seated in his
arm-chair where he could overlook all that took place on the deck. He
hastened to him, detaching his arm from the hand of the captain, and
gave him an affectionate greeting.

"I was very sorry to learn that you were wounded, Christy," said he,
holding the right hand of the young officer.

"Not badly wounded, Uncle Homer," replied Christy. "I hope you are
well."

"I am not very well, though I do not call myself sick. Have you heard
from your father lately, Christy?" asked his uncle.

"Not for a long time, for no store-ship or other vessel has come to our
squadron for several months, though we are waiting for a vessel at the
present time. You look very pale and thin, Uncle Homer."

"Perhaps I look worse than I feel," replied the planter with a faint
smile. "But I have suffered a great deal of anxiety lately."

"Excuse me, Colonel Passford, but if you will allow me to install you in
your stateroom, you will have abundance of time to talk with your nephew
afterwards," interposed Captain Breaker, who was very busy.

"Certainly, Captain; pardon me for detaining you. I am a prisoner,
and I shall need my trunk, which is in my stateroom on board of the
Tallahatchie. Gill will bring it on board if you send word to him to do
so," replied the colonel.

He followed the captain to his cabin. The door of the Confederate
commander's room was open, and the planter exchanged a few words with
him. He was shown to the other stateroom, and Punch was ordered to do
all that he could for the comfort of the passenger. Captain Breaker
spoke a few pleasant words with the wounded commander, and then hastened
on deck.

Mr. Ballard, the second lieutenant, had again been duly installed as
temporary executive officer; Mr. Walbrook had been moved up, and Mr.
Bostwick, master, had become third lieutenant. As usual, the engineers
were Englishmen, who had come over in the Trafalgar, as well as the
greater part of the crew, though the other officers were Southern
gentlemen who had "retired" from the United States Navy. The foreigners
were willing to remain in the engine room, and promised to do their duty
faithfully as long as their wages were paid; but Leon Bolter, the first
assistant engineer of the Bellevite, was sent on board of the prize to
insure their fidelity.

Ensigns Palmer Drake and Richard Leyton, who were serving on board of
the steamer while waiting for positions, were sent to the Tallahatchie,
the first named as prizemaster, and the other as his first officer, with
a prize crew of twenty men, and the two steamers got under way.




CHAPTER XX

A VERY MELANCHOLY CONFEDERATE


Notwithstanding his military title, Colonel Homer Passford was not a
soldier, though he had once been a sort of honorary head of a regiment
of militia. His brother, Captain Horatio Passford, Christy's father, was
a millionaire in the tenth degree. More than twenty years before the war
he had assisted Homer to all the money he required to buy a plantation
in Alabama, near Mobile, where he had prospered exceedingly, though his
possessions had never been a tenth part of those of his wealthy brother.

Homer had married in the South, and was the father of a son and
daughter, now approaching their maturity, and Corny, the son, was a
soldier in the Confederate army. The most affectionate relations had
always subsisted between the two families; and before the war the
Bellevite had always visited Glenfield, the plantation of the colonel,
at least twice a year.

Florry Passford, the captain's daughter, being somewhat out of health,
had passed the winter before the beginning of the war at Glenfield, and
was there when the enemy's guns opened upon Fort Sumter. Captain
Passford had not supposed that his brother in Alabama would take part
with the South in the Rebellion, and with great difficulty and risk he
had gone to Glenfield in the Bellevite, for the purpose of conveying his
daughter to his home at Bonnydale on the Hudson, not doubting that Homer
and his family would be his passengers on the return to the North.

He was entirely mistaken in regard to the political sentiments of the
colonel, and found that he was one of the most devoted and determined
advocates of the Southern cause. The southern brother did not conceal
his opinions, and it was plain enough to the captain that he was
entirely sincere, and believed with all his mind, heart, and soul, that
it was his religious, moral, and social duty to espouse what he called
his country's cause; and he had done so with all his influence and his
fortune. He had even gone so far in his devotion to his duty as he
understood it, as to attempt to hand over the Bellevite, though she was
not in Mobile Bay on a warlike mission, to the new government of the
South, and had taken part personally in an expedition extended to
capture her.

The steam-yacht had been armed at the Bermudas, and fought her way out
of the bay; and on her return to New York her owner presented her to the
Government of the United States. She had done good service, and Christy
had begun his brilliant career as a naval officer in the capacity of a
midshipman on board of her. In spite of the hostile political attitude
of the brothers to each other, the same affectionate relations had
continued between the two families, for each of them believed that
social and family ties should not interfere with his patriotic duty to
his country.

The commander of the Confederate forces at Hilton Head--one of the
highest-toned and most estimable gentlemen one could find in the North
or the South--informed the author that his own brother was in command of
one of the Federal ships that were bombarding his works. While Commodore
Wilkes, of Mason and Slidell memory, was capturing the Southern
representatives who had to be given up, his son was in the Confederate
navy, and then or later was casting guns at Charlotte for the use of
the South: and the writer never met a more reasonable and kindly man.
Fortunately our two brothers were not called upon to confront each other
as foes on the battlefield or on the sea, though both of them would have
done their duty in such positions.

The last time Christy had seen his Uncle Homer was when he was captured
on board of the Dornoch with Captain Rombold, as he was endeavoring to
obtain a passage to England as a Confederate agent for the purchase of
suitable vessels to prey upon the mercantile marine of the United
States. He and the commander of the Tallahatchie had been exchanged
at about the same time; and they had proceeded to Nassau, where they
embarked for England in a cotton steamer. There they had purchased
and fitted out the Trafalgar; for the agent's drafts, in which the last
of his fortune had been absorbed, could not be made available to his
captors. Colonel Passford had an interview with Captain Rombold after
Gill had brought his trunk on board; and it was a very sad occasion
to the planter, if not to the naval officer. They had not had an
opportunity to consider the disaster that had overtaken the Confederate
steamer, which had promised such favorable results for their cause; for
the commander had been entirely occupied till he received his wound, and
even then he had attended to his duties, for, as before suggested, he
was a "last ditch" man. He was not fighting for the South as a mere
hireling; for he had married a Southern wife, and she had enlisted all
his sympathies in the cause of her people.

"I suppose we have nothing more to hope for, Captain Rombold; and we
can only put our trust in the All-Wise and the All-Powerful, who never
forsakes his children when they are fighting for right and justice,"
said Colonel Passford, after he had condoled with the commander on his
wounded condition.

"We shall come out all right in the end, Colonel; don't be so cast
down," replied the captain.

"I raised the money by mortgaging my plantation and what other
property I had left for all the money I could get upon it to a wealthy
Englishman, the one who came to Mobile with us from Nassau, to obtain
the cargoes for this steamer. I had borrowed all I could before that for
the purchase of the Trafalgar; and if the current does not change in our
favor soon, I shall be a beggar," added the colonel bitterly.

"The tide will turn, my good friend; and it would have turned before now
if all the planters had been as self-sacrificing as you have," said the
captain.

"Cotton and gold are about the same thing just now; and with the
large cargo on board of the West Wind, which I induced my friends to
contribute to the good cause, and that in the hold of the Tallahatchie,
I was confident that I could purchase the Kilmarnock, which you say is
good for eighteen knots an hour. Now the West Wind and the Tallahatchie
are both prizes of the enemy, and there is no present hope for us,"
continued the colonel; and there was no wonder that he had become pale
and thin.

"We are in a bad situation, Colonel Passford, I admit, for both of us
are prisoners of war, so that we can do nothing, even if we had the
means; but everything will come out right in the end," replied the
wounded officer, though he could not explain in what manner this result
was to be achieved.

"Well, Captain Rombold, how are you feeling?" asked Dr. Linscott,
darkening the door when the conversation had reached this gloomy point.

"Very comfortable, Doctor," replied the commander. "My friend is Colonel
Passford."

"Bless me!" exclaimed the surgeon, as he extended his hand to the
visitor. "I am very glad to see you, and I hope you are very well. I am
happy to inform you that your nephew, who was wounded in the engagement,
is doing very well."

"Yes; I met him on deck," replied the planter very gloomily.

"What is the matter, Colonel Passford? You look quite pale, and you have
lost flesh since I met you last. Can I do anything for you?"

"Nothing, Doctor; I am not very well, though nothing in particular
ails me. With your permission I will retire to my stateroom," said the
colonel, as he rose from his seat.

"By the way, Colonel Passford, the captain wished me to ascertain if you
have been to breakfast," added the surgeon, following him out into the
cabin.

"I have not, Doctor; but it was because I wanted none, for I do not feel
like eating," replied the pale planter.

"Punch, go to the galley, get a beefsteak, a plate of toast, and a cup
of coffee. Set out the captain's table, and call this gentleman when it
is ready."

"Yes, sir," replied Punch, who was a very genteel colored person.

The colonel attempted to protest, but the surgeon would not hear him.
He remained with the planter, whom he already regarded as a patient, and
though he could not say anything to comfort him, he talked him into a
pleasanter frame of mind. Punch set the table, and in due time brought
the breakfast. The doctor sat down opposite to him at the table, and
actually compelled him to eat a tolerably hearty meal. He was decidedly
less gloomy when he had finished, and it was plain to his companion that
his empty stomach was responsible for a portion of his depression of
spirits.

The surgeon had remained on board of the prize till the order to get
under way was given, and then Captain Breaker sent for him; but the
two medical gentlemen had disposed of most of the wounds among the
Confederate crew. As the English engineer had reported, the machinery
and boilers of the Tallahatchie were in good condition, and the two
steamers went on their course towards the entrance to Mobile Bay, where
French had been ordered to anchor the West Wind, at full speed, though
neither was driven; but the log showed that they were making about
eighteen knots.

After the brief talk with his uncle, Christy had waited for him to
return to the deck, as he supposed he would after what the captain had
said to him; but he did not appear. In fact, Colonel Passford was too
much cast down by the capture of the two vessels, and the loss of his
fortune thereby, that he was not disposed to see any person if he could
avoid it.

"Don't you think you had better turn in, Mr. Passford?" asked the
commander, as he halted in his walk at the side of the lieutenant.

"I have been waiting here to see my uncle; for I thought, after what you
said to him, that he would come back," added Christy.

"I sent Dr. Linscott down to see him, for he looks so pale and feeble
that I thought he must be sick. The surgeon reported to me half an hour
ago that he had made him eat his breakfast against his will, and he was
feeling better and more cheerful. He thinks your Uncle Homer's trouble
is entirely mental, and he does not feel like seeing any person,"
answered the commander.

"What mental trouble can he have?" asked Christy, as he gazed into the
face of the captain, wondering if his father's brother was insane.

"The colonel has shipped a vast amount of cotton intending to use the
proceeds of its sale to purchase ships for the Confederacy; and he has
lost most of them, for you captured quite a number of them when you
were in command of the Bronx. I have no doubt he was interested in the
cargoes of the prize and the West Wind; and the capture of these two
vessels involves a fearful loss. I believe that is all that ails him,"
the captain explained. "Doubtless he feels as kindly towards his nephew
as ever before in his life; but he does not care to see him just now."

Early in the afternoon the Bellevite and her prize came in sight of the
West Wind, anchored in accordance with French's orders, with the Holyoke
almost within hail of her; for the captain of the steamer had doubtless
considered the possibility of a recapture of the schooner by boats from
the shore, if she was left unprotected.

In due time the Bellevite let go her anchor at about a cable's length
from the West Wind, and the prize-master of the Tallahatchie had done
the same at an equal distance from the ship. Mr. Graines, who had not
met his late associate on shore since he was wounded, came to his side
as soon as the steamer had anchored; for both Christy and he were
anxious to hear the report of French in regard to the prisoners left in
his care.

The anchor of the Bellevite had hardly caught in the sand before a boat
put off from the West Wind containing four persons. Two of the ship's
seamen were at the oars, French was in the stern sheets, and the
engineer soon recognized Captain Sullendine as the fourth person.




CHAPTER XXI

CAPTAIN SULLENDINE BECOMES VIOLENT


French ascended the gangway followed by Captain Sullendine. The seaman
who had acted as prize-master of the West Wind touched his cap very
respectfully to the first officer he met when he came on board. Christy
had asked the chief engineer to send Mr. Graines to him, and he was
talking to him about the prize and the chief prisoner when French
presented himself before them.

"I have come on board to report, sir," said the prize-master of the West
Wind.

"Is all well on board, French?" asked the wounded lieutenant.

"All well now, sir," replied the seaman, with a suggestive emphasis on
the last word. "I am very sorry to learn that you have been wounded, Mr.
Passford."

"Not severely, French," replied Christy. "I am ready to hear your
report."

"I have something to say about this business, Jerry Sandman," interposed
the captain of the West Wind, whose wrath had suddenly got the better of
his judgment, interlarding his brief remark with a couple of ringing
oaths.

"I will hear the prize-master first," replied Christy very quietly.

The discomfited master of the schooner called down a shocking
malediction upon the prize-master just as Captain Breaker presented
himself before the group assembled at the arm-chair of the lieutenant,
and had heard the last oaths of the angry man.

"Who is this man, Mr. Passford?" asked the commander.

"I'll let you know who I am!" exclaimed Captain Sullendine, with another
couplet of oaths.

"I do not permit any profane language on the deck of this ship," said
Captain Breaker. "Pass the word for the master-at-arms," he added to the
nearest officer.

"Oh, you are the cap'n of this hooker," added the master of the West
Wind, this time without any expletives. "I have somethin' to say to you,
Cap'n, and I want to complain of your officers."

"When you have learned how to behave yourself, I will hear you," replied
the commander, as the master-at-arms, who is the chief of police on
board a ship of war, presented himself, touching his cap to the supreme
authority of the steamer. "What is the trouble here, Mr. Passford?"
asked Captain Breaker in a very gentle tone, in contrast with the quiet
sternness with which he had spoken to Captain Sullendine.

"No trouble at all, sir; I was about to hear the report of French, the
prize-master of the schooner, when the captain of her interfered,"
replied Christy.

"My story comes in before the prize-master's, as you call him, though he
ain't nothin' but a common sailor," interposed Captain Sullendine again.

"Will you be silent?" demanded the commander.

"No, I will not! This is an outrage!" stormed the captain of the West
Wind, with a liberal spicing of oaths in his speech.

"Put this man in irons, master-at-arms, and commit him to the brig,"
added Captain Breaker.

The petty officer called upon the ship's corporal, whom he had brought
with him, and placed his hand on the arm of the rebellious master, who
showed fight. A couple of seamen were called to assist the police force,
and Captain Sullendine was dragged below with his wrists ironed behind
him.

"Now you can proceed, French," said the captain.

"When I left you, all was quiet on board of the West Wind," added
Christy, beginning to make a slight explanation for the benefit of the
commander. "Captain Sullendine was very drunk, asleep in his berth, with
the door of his stateroom securely fastened upon him. Bokes the seaman
and Sopsy the cook were in the same condition. Go on, French."

"I picked up the boat you set adrift, Mr. Passford, and then headed for
the eastward of Sand Island lighthouse, where you ordered me to anchor.
The Holyoke followed the schooner, and came to anchor near the West
Wind. She sent a boat on board, and I told my story to the second
lieutenant. We did not need any assistance, and he left us.

  [Illustration: "Captain Sullendine was dragged below." Page 238.]

"About four bells in the forenoon watch I heard a tremendous racket in
the cabin, and I went below. Captain Sullendine was doing his best to
break down the door of his stateroom, cursing hard enough to make the
blood of a Christian run cold. But he had nothing to work with, and I
let him kick and pound till he got tired of it. I put Vogel in the cabin
to keep watch of him, and went on deck.

"He kept it up for half an hour or more, and then he seemed to have
enough of it. Vogel came on deck and told me the prisoner was very
humble then, and wanted to come out. I knew you did not mean that I
should starve him, and I made Sopsy put his breakfast on the table in
the cabin; but I did not do so till I had locked the liquor closet and
put the key in my pocket.

"I let him out then, and his first move was to get at his whiskey; but
the door was locked. He begged like a child for a drink; but I did not
give him a drop. Sopsy and Bokes, who were tied up forward, did the
same; but they did not get any. Captain Sullendine ate his breakfast,
and I told him his vessel was a prize to the United States steamer
Bellevite. Then he was so furious that we had to shut him up in his
stateroom again.

"After a while he promised to behave himself, and I let him out again.
He declared that his vessel was not a legal prize, and got off a lot of
stuff that I did not take any notice of. He wanted to make a protest to
the commander of the Bellevite, and when he promised to behave like a
gentleman, I let him come on board with me."

"You acted with very good judgment, French, and Mr. Passford has already
commended your good conduct in the expedition last night," said the
commander.

"Thank you, sir," replied the prize-master, touching his cap, and
backing away without another word.

"Loring," called the captain to the master-at-arms, who had just
returned to the quarter-deck, or as near it as etiquette permitted him
to go. "How is your prisoner?"

"He broke down completely after he had been in the brig a few minutes,
and promised to behave like a gentleman if the commander would hear
him."

"Bring him to the quarter-deck," added the captain.

In a few minutes, the ship's corporal conducted him into the presence
of the commander. He began with a very lame apology for his previous
conduct, and then declared that he was the victim of a "Yankee trick,"
and that the West Wind had not been fairly captured.

"Your officers imposed upon me," he continued. "Mr. Balker and Jerry
Sandman"--

"Who are they?" inquired Captain Breaker, interrupting him.

"I was Mr. Balker, engaged as mate of the West Wind, selected for that
position by Mr. Passford, while the lieutenant was Jerry Sandman, second
mate, which he chose to be himself so that he could be with the men,"
interposed Mr. Graines.

"I did not know what their names was, and I reckoned all was honest
and square. These men, whoever they were, got me drunk, and got drunk
themselves; and while I was taking a nap, waiting for the steamer to get
under way, they fastened me into my stateroom so I couldn't get out."

"I went through the forms, but I did not take a drop of liquor into my
mouth," said Christy.

"I did not take more than a tablespoonful both on board and at the camp
of the runaways," added Mr. Graines.

"Then you cheated me more'n I thought."

"Is this all the complaint you have to make, Captain Sullendine?" asked
Captain Breaker, turning to the master of the West Wind.

"I reckon that's enough!" protested the complainant. "I say it was not
a fair capture, and you ought to send my vessel back to Mobile Point,
where your officers found her."

"I shall not do that, but I will compromise the matter by sending you to
Mobile Point, as I have no further use for you," replied the commander.
"You are a non-combatant, and not a prisoner of war."

French was ordered to leave Captain Sullendine, Bokes, and Sopsy at the
shore where the whaleboat had made a landing, as soon as it was dark.
For some reason not apparent, the master of the West Wind protested
against this sentence; but no attention was given to his protest. The
commander was confident that he had evidence enough to secure the
condemnation of the prize, and he regarded such an unreasonable fellow
as her late captain as a nuisance. That night the order in regard to him
and his companions were carried out.

Captain Breaker asked some questions in regard to French, which Christy
and Mr. Graines were able to answer. He was one of those men, of whom
there were thousands in the army and navy who had become soldiers and
sailors purely from patriotic duty, and at the sacrifice of brighter
present prospects. French had been the mate of a large coaster, whose
captain had become an ensign in the navy, and he might have had the
command of her if he had not shipped as an able seaman in the same
service.

He understood navigation, and had been the second mate of an Indiaman.
The commander said nothing when he had learned all he could about the
prize-master; but it was evident that he had something in view which
might be of interest to the subject of his inquiries. He turned his
attention to the condition of his first lieutenant then, asking about
his arm.

"It does not feel quite so easy as it did," replied Christy, who had
been suffering some pain from his wound for the last two hours, though
he was so interested in the proceedings on board, and especially in the
report from the West Wind, that he had not been willing to retire to his
stateroom.

"Then you must turn in at once, Mr. Passford," said the commander, with
more energy than he had spoken to the lieutenant before. "I am afraid
you have delayed it too long."

"I think not, sir." replied the wounded officer.

"Mr. Graines shall go with you and assist you," added the captain.
"I will send Dr. Linscott to you as soon as you get into your berth."

Christy had been sitting so long that he was quite stiff when he
attempted to get out of his chair, and the engineer assisted him. He
was still very weak, and Mr. Graines supported him, though he presently
recovered himself. The ship's company, by this time relieved of all
heavy work, had been observing him with affectionate admiration, and
rehearsing the daring exploit in which he had received his wound, gave
three rousing cheers as he rose to leave the quarter-deck.

Christy turned his pale face towards them, raised his cap, and bowed to
them. Another cheer followed, and then another. The men knew that his
prompt action in mounting the mizzen rigging, boarding the Tallahatchie,
and firing the thirty-pounder after he had reversed its position, had
saved the lives or limbs of a great number of them, and they were
extremely grateful to him.

With the assistance of his friend the engineer, Christy was soon between
the sheets in his berth. Dr. Linscott came in as soon as he was in his
bed, spoke very tenderly to him, and then proceeded to dress his injured
arm. He found the member was somewhat swollen, and the patient's pulse
indicated some fever.

"I must send you home, Mr. Passford," said the surgeon. "You are the
hero of the day, you have earned a vacation, and you will need your
mother's care for the next three weeks."

In spite of Christy's protest, the doctor insisted, and left him.




CHAPTER XXII

THE DISPOSITION OF THE TWO PRIZES


The surgeon reported the condition of the first lieutenant to the
commander at once, and a long conversation between them followed.
Devoted as Captain Breaker was to his executive officer, and filled with
admiration as he was for the gallant exploit of that day, he was not
willing to do anything that could be fairly interpreted as favoritism
towards the son of Captain Passford. The summer weather of the South was
coming on, and the heat was already oppressive, even on board of the
ships of war at anchor so much of the time on the blockade, and this was
the strong point of the doctor in caring for his patient.

Dr. Linscott was very earnest in insisting upon his point; and the
commander yielded, for he could hardly do otherwise in the face of the
surgeon's recommendation, for the latter was the responsible person. The
next morning, after the wounded officer had passed a feverish night,
Captain Breaker visited him in his stateroom, and announced the
decision. Christy began to fight against it.

"I am not so badly off as many officers who have been treated in the
hospital down here; and if I am sent home it will be regarded as
favoritism to the son of my father," protested the lieutenant.

"You are too sensitive, my dear boy, as you have always been; and you
are entirely mistaken. You have earned a furlough if you choose to ask
for it, and every officer and seaman who has served with you would say
so," argued the captain. "I shall insert in my report, with other matter
concerning you, Christy, that you were sent home on the certificate of
the surgeon; and even an unreasonable person cannot call it favoritism."

"I don't know," added Christy, shaking his head.

"I know, my boy. Merciful Heaven!" exclaimed Captain Breaker. "You did
enough yesterday to entitle you to any favor it is possible for the
department to extend to you. You saved the lives of a quarter or a third
of the ship's company. But it was not simply a brave and daring exploit,
my boy, though even that would entitle you to the fullest commendation;
but it included sound judgment on the instant, lightning invention, and
consummately skilful action;" and the commander became positively
eloquent as he proceeded.

"Come, come, Captain Breaker! You are piling it on altogether too
thick," cried Christy, overwhelmed by the torrent of praise. "I only did
what I could not help doing."

"No matter if you did; it was the right thing to do, and it was done at
precisely the right instant. A moment's delay would have brought the
whole force of the enemy down upon you. It was absolutely wonderful how
you got that gun off in such a short space of time. I report Captain
Rombold's words to you."

"He is a magnanimous gentleman," said Christy.

"He says, too, that a dozen muskets and revolvers were discharged at
you, and it is a miracle that only one bullet struck you."

"I found a bullet-hole in my cap, and two more in the skirt of my coat,"
added the patient with a smile, as he pointed to his coat and cap.

"But we are off the subject; and I was only trying to show that you are
entitled to a furlough," said the commander; but the discussion was
continued for some time longer, though Christy consented to be sent home
in the end.

The thought of going to Bonnydale was exceedingly pleasant to him, and
he allowed his mind to dwell upon each member of the family, and to
picture in his imagination the greeting they would all give him. Not to
the members of his family alone did he confine his thoughts; for they
included the beautiful Bertha Pembroke, whom, with her father, he had
taken from the cabin of a cotton steamer he had captured. He concluded
that the surgeon's certificate would shield him from adverse criticism,
after he had fully considered the matter.

The flag-officer of the Eastern Gulf Squadron was not off Mobile Point;
and Captain Breaker, as the senior officer present, was obliged to
dispose of his prizes himself. Some necessary repairs had to be made
upon both ships before anything could be done; and the carpenter and his
gang, with all the other seamen who could handle an axe or an adze, were
hurrying forward the work. The prize had lost her mizzen mast, her
steering gear had been knocked to pieces both forward and aft, she had
been riddled in a dozen places, and shot-holes in the hull had been
hastily plugged during the action.

Her Armstrong gun amidships had been disabled by Blumenhoff at his first
fire. Christy had not found the opportunity to examine this piece, as he
desired; but Mr. Graines had done so for him; and it was found that the
gun carriage had been knocked into a shapeless mass so that it could not
be put in condition for use. The machinists from the engine room of both
vessels, for those of the Tallahatchie had no feeling on the subject,
were restoring the steering apparatus, and were likely to have the work
completed the next day.

Captain Breaker was in great doubt as to what he ought to do with
Colonel Passford. He was certainly a non-combatant; and it could not be
shown that he had any mission to Nassau or elsewhere in the service of
the Confederacy, though it would have been otherwise if the steamer and
the West Wind had not been captures, for he was to sell the cotton in
England, and purchase a steamer with the proceeds; but his mission ended
with the loss of the vessels. He finally decided to send him to Fort
Morgan under a flag of truce.

Before he left he called upon his nephew. He was still in a state
of despondency over his own losses, and his failures to benefit the
Confederacy, whose loss he counted as greater than his own. He stated
that the commander had announced his intention to send him on shore.
Christy had seen him but for a moment, for his uncle had not desired to
meet him again.

"We will not talk about the war, Uncle Homer," said Christy. "How are
Aunt Lydia, Corny, and Gerty? I hope they are all very well."

"Your aunt is not very well, for the hardships of the war have worn upon
her. Except Uncle Jerry and Aunty Chloe, the cook, all our negroes have
left us, or been taken by the government to work on fortifications, and
my wife and Gerty have to do most of the housework," replied Uncle Homer
very gloomily; and it was plain to Christy that the mansion at Glenfield
was not what it had been in former years.

"How is Corny? I have not heard from him lately."

"Corny is now a captain in the Army of Virginia, and is doing his duty
like a man," answered the colonel proudly; and this fact seemed to be
almost the only pleasant feature of his experience. "We have been called
upon to endure a great many hardships; but we still feel that the God of
justice will give us the victory in the end, and we try to bear our
burdens with resignation. The captain informs me that you are going
home, Christy."

"The surgeon has ordered me to the North on account of the heat in this
locality."

"I learned in Nassau as well as when I was at Bonnydale, that your
father holds a very prominent and influential position among your
people, and your advancement seems to be made sure," added the planter.

"He has never held any office under the United States government, and
I hope I do not owe my advancement to him; and he has often assured me
that he never asked for my promotion or appointment," said Christy.

"You have been of very great service to your government, as I know to my
sorrow, and I have no doubt you deserved whatever promotion you have
obtained," added the colonel, observing that he had touched his nephew
in a very tender spot. "But I suppose the boat is waiting for me, and I
must bid you good-by. Remember me in the kindliest manner to your father
and mother, and to Miss Florry. They were all as good to me when I was
on parole at Bonnydale as though no war had ever divided us."

The colonel took Christy by the hand, and betrayed no little emotion
as they parted. The lieutenant realized that his uncle was suffering
severely under the hardships and anxieties of the war, and he was
profoundly sorry for him, though he uttered no complaint. Both on his
own account and on that of the Confederacy, he had shipped several
cargoes of cotton to Nassau to be sent from there to England; but every
one of them had been captured, most of them by his nephew while in
command of the Bronx. But he was still confident that the Confederacy
would triumph.

Colonel Passford had been sent to the fort under a flag of truce, and
had been received by the commandant. In a couple of days the repairs of
both ships had been completed. Captain Rombold, though his wound was
quite severe, was getting along very well. Captain Breaker had completed
his arrangements for the disposal of the prizes and prisoners; and it
became necessary to remove the wounded commander to the cabin of the
Tallahatchie, to which he did not object, for the wounded in his cabin
had been placed in a temporary hospital between decks. He was permitted
to occupy the stateroom he had used while in command, while the other
was reserved for the prize-master.

Ensign Palmer Drake, the senior of the two officers waiting
appointments, was made prize-master of the Tallahatchie, for he had
proved to be an able and brave man in the recent action. Mr. Ballard
became executive officer of the Bellevite, and Mr. Walbrook the second
lieutenant, while the place of the third was filled by Mr. Bostwick, who
had been master. French was appointed prize-master of the West Wind,
with a crew of five men, as she was to be towed by the prize steamer.

It was found that the Tallahatchie had gone into the action with
ninety-five men, including the forward officers. More than one-third of
them had been killed or disabled, without counting those who were still
able to keep the deck and sleep in their hammocks. Fifty of them were
in condition to do duty; and Captain Breaker did not consider it prudent
to send so many prisoners to the North in the prize. He therefore sent
forty of them to Key West in the Holyoke, assured that the Bellevite was
abundantly able to maintain the blockade, even with her reduced ship's
company, during the absence of his consort.

The engineers of the prize were willing to continue their services at
the expense of their new employer, or even to accept permanent
appointments; for they did not belong to the upper classes in England
who favored the cause of the Confederacy, and were only looking for the
highest wages. Weeks, the oiler, and Bingham, a boatswain's mate, were
appointed first and second officers of the Tallahatchie, and twenty
seamen were detailed as a prize crew. To insure the fidelity of the four
foreign engineers Mr. Graines was sent as a sort of supervisor, with the
knowledge and assent of those in actual charge of the machinery.

When all was ready for her departure, Christy went on board of the
Tallahatchie in the same boat with the engineer, after a rather sad
parting with the captain and his fellow-officers, and amid the cheers of
the seamen, who had mounted the rail and the rigging to see him off. Mr.
Drake conducted him to the captain's cabin when he went on board of the
prize, where he met Captain Rombold, with whom he exchanged friendly
greetings.

"Fellow passengers again, Mr. Passford; but you are going to your
reward, and I to my punishment," said the late commander very
cheerfully.

"Hardly to my reward, for I neither desire nor expect any further
promotion," replied Christy. "I am not yet twenty years old."

"But God makes some fully-developed men before they are twenty-one, and
you are one of them."

"Thank you, Captain."

"I am willing to wager the salary I have lost that you will be promoted
whether you desire it or not."

"I hope not," replied the lieutenant, as he went to the temporary
stateroom which had been prepared for him.

The apartment was much larger than the permanent ones, and it was
provided with everything that could contribute to his comfort. While Mr.
Graines was assisting him to arrange his baggage, the steamer got under
way.




CHAPTER XXIII

THE WELCOME HOME AT BONNYDALE


Even with the West Wind in tow, the Tallahatchie could make fifteen
knots an hour; for the sea was smooth, with every prospect of continued
fine weather. Dr. Davidson was a prisoner of war, but he remained on
board in charge of the wounded of both sides. He was very devoted to
Christy, and dressed his wound every morning as tenderly as his mother
could have done it. He was a gentleman in the highest sense of the word,
and belonged to one of the best families in the South.

Captain Rombold was a very agreeable person; and most of the
conversation in the cabin was carried on in French, for the commander
was delighted when he could obtain an opportunity to practise the
language, and Dr. Davidson spoke it as fluently as a Frenchman, though
Captain Drake was unable to understand a word of it. If one had looked
in upon them he would have supposed they were enjoying a yachting
excursion, and could not have told who were prisoners and who were not.

The two wounded officers passed a portion of every day on deck, and the
time slipped away very pleasantly. Mr. Graines spent much of his days
and some of his nights in the engine-room, and was on the best of terms
with the English engineers; but he could discover no signs of treachery
on their part. The prisoners forward were well treated and well cared
for, and they made no trouble.

The ship made a quick passage to New York, and went into the harbor
with the American flag flying over the Confederate; but this was not an
uncommon sight, and it did not attract much attention. The pilot brought
a file of newspapers, and the lieutenant learned that Grant was still
"hammering away" at the Confederate forces in Virginia, though without
any decided success. The ship came to anchor at the navy yard, and
Captain Drake reported to the commandant.

Lieutenant Passford was well known there, though the intelligence of his
latest achievement had not yet reached there. Christy had written out
his report of the expedition to Mobile Point, and Captain Drake brought
that of Captain Breaker of the action with the Tallahatchie. The
lieutenant had no official duty to perform, and he was at liberty to go
where he pleased. He procured leave of absence for Mr. Graines; for he
was himself still on fever diet, and was rather weak so that he needed
his assistance.

"Home again, Charley!" exclaimed Christy, when they had landed at the
navy yard.

"That's so, and my folks at home will not expect to see me," replied the
engineer.

"Neither will any one at Bonnydale anticipate a visit from me," added
Christy. "We know all about the sharp action of the Bellevite with the
Tallahatchie; but no one in these parts can have heard a word about it.
Now, Charley, see if you can find a carriage for me;" and the wounded
officer went into an office to wait for it.

The uniform of the messenger carried him past all sentinels; and in half
an hour he returned in a carriage, which was permitted to enter the yard
on Mr. Graines's statement of its intended use. Christy was assisted
into it. "Wall Street Ferry," said the lieutenant to the driver.

"Why do you go there?" asked the engineer. "You wish to go to the
railroad station, do you not?"

"I want to find my father if I can, and I think he must be in the city,"
replied Christy, as he gave his companion the location of the office
where he did his business with the government, though he made frequent
visits to Washington for consultation with the officials of the Navy
Department.

The carriage was retained, and in another hour they reached the office.
Captain Passford was not there; he had gone to Washington three days
before, and no one knew when he would return. Christy was prepared for
this disappointment, and he had arranged in his mind the wording of
a telegraphic message to his father. While he was writing it out a
gentleman came out of the office whom the lieutenant had met before.

"I am delighted to see you, Mr. Passford!" exclaimed the gentleman, who
was in the uniform of a naval officer, as he extended his hand to the
visitor. "One of our people informed me that the son of Captain Passford
was at the door, and I hastened out to see you. Won't you come into the
office?"

"No, I thank you; I am not very well, for I was wounded in the left arm
in our last action, and I am sent home by the surgeon on a furlough,"
replied Christy. "Permit me, Captain Bentwick, to introduce my friend,
Mr. Graines, third assistant engineer of the Bellevite."

"I am very happy to know you, Mr. Graines," added Captain Bentwick,
taking his hand. "I am very sorry you are wounded, Mr. Passford. What
can I do for you?"

"Nothing, I thank you, at present. I am writing a message to send to my
father. I was just finishing it when you came," replied Christy, as he
added the finishing words, and passed it to the official.

"'Sent home on furlough, slightly wounded. Wish paroles for Captain
George Rombold and Dr. Pierre Davidson,'" Captain Bentwick read from the
paper. "I will have it sent at once from this office. But, Mr. Passford,
I can parole these officers, and it is not necessary for you to trouble
your father with such a matter. Who and what are the officers?"

"Captain Rombold was the commander of the Tallahatchie, prize to the
Bellevite," answered Christy. "When I was in danger of fainting after
the action on the deck of his ship, he sent for his surgeon, Dr.
Davidson, though his own wound had not been dressed. Both he and the
surgeon were extremely kind to me, and I desire to reciprocate their
good offices by inviting them to my father's house."

"Where are these gentlemen now, Mr. Passford?"

"I left them on board of the prize at the navy yard, sir. I am not sure
that they will accept parole, for I have not spoken to them about it;
but I am very anxious to serve them."

"I know what your father would say if he were here, and I will send an
officer authorized to take their parole to the navy yard at once. I will
instruct him to represent your desire to them in the strongest terms,
and if they accept, to conduct them to Bonnydale, for I know you must be
in a hurry to get there," continued Captain Bentwick, as he shook the
hands of both officers, and returned to the office.

"That shows what it is to have powerful friends," said Mr. Graines, when
his companion had directed the driver to the railroad station.

  [Illustration: "Mrs. Passford rushed down the steps." Page 264.]

"I have not asked anything unreasonable, Charley," replied Christy,
sensitive as usual in regard to influential assistance.

"Certainly not; but if I had asked to have your Confederate friends
paroled, a thousand yards of red tape would have to be expended before
it could be done," added the engineer with a laugh.

They reached the station, and discharged the carriage; but they found
they had to wait two hours for a train to Bonnydale. As it was after
noon, they went to a hotel for dinner, and passed the time very
impatiently in waiting for the train. Both of them were burning with the
desire to see their friends at home; but the train started in due time,
and they left it at the nearest station to Bonnydale, proceeding there
in a carriage.

Christy gave the bell a very vigorous pull, and the servant that came to
the door was a stranger to him. He wished to see Mrs. Passford; and the
man was about to conduct him to the reception room, when he bolted from
him.

"Mrs. Passford is engaged just now, sir; but she will be down in a few
minutes," said the servant, laying his hand on his arm for the purpose
of detaining him.

"But I cannot wait," returned the lieutenant very decidedly, and he
shook off the man, and began to ascend the stairs.

An instant later there was a double scream on the floor above, and Mrs.
Passford rushed down the steps, followed by Florry. Christy retreated to
the hall, and a moment later he was folded in the arms of his mother and
sister, both of whom were kissing him at the same time.

"But, my son, your arm is in a sling!" exclaimed Mrs. Passford, falling
back with an expression of consternation on her face.

"You are wounded, Christy!" cried Florry, as a flood of tears came into
her eyes.

"Only a scratch, mother; don't be alarmed," protested the lieutenant.
"It was all nonsense to send me home on a furlough; but it was the
commander's order, at the recommendation of Dr. Linscott."

"But you are wounded, my son," persisted his mother.

"You have been shot in the arm, Christy," added Florry.

"But I was not shot through the head or the heart; it is not a bit of
use to make a fuss about it; and Paul Vapoor was not wounded, for he had
to stay in the engine room during the action, and he is as hearty as a
buck," rattled the lieutenant, and making his pretty sister blush like a
fresh rose.

"I am really worried about it, my son. Where is the wound?" asked his
mother.

"Here, Charley, tell them all about it," called Christy to his
companion, who had been forgotten in the excitement of the moment.

"Why, Charley Graines!" exclaimed Florry, rushing to him with an
extended hand. "I did not know you were here."

"I am glad to see you, Charley, especially as you have been a friend and
associate of my son, as you were before the war," added Mrs. Passford.

"I am very glad to see you, Mrs. Passford and Miss Passford," said he,
bowing to both of them. "I have been on duty recently with Christy, and
I have been looking out for him on the voyage home."

"Charley has been a brother to me, and done everything under the canopy
for me. I am somewhat fatigued just now," added the lieutenant, as he
seated himself on a sofa in the hall. "He will answer your questions
now, and tell you that I am not killed."

"But come into the sitting-room, my son, for we can make you more
comfortable there," said his mother, taking him by the right arm, and
assisting him to rise.

"I don't need any help, mamma," added Christy playfully, as he rose from
the sofa. "I have not been butchered, and I haven't anything but a
little bullet-hole through the fleshy part of my left arm. Don't make a
baby of me; for a commander in the Confederate navy told me that God
made some fully-developed men before they were twenty-one, and that I
was one of them. Don't make me fall from my high estate to that of an
overgrown infant, mother."

"I will not do anything of the kind, my son," replied Mrs. Passford, as
she arranged the cushions on the sofa for him. "Now, Florry, get a wrap
for him."

Christy stretched himself out on the sofa, for he was really fatigued by
the movements of the forenoon and the excitement of his return to the
scenes of his childhood.

"Tell them what the doctors said about my wound, Charley," he continued,
as he arranged himself for the enjoyment of a period of silence.

"Mr. Passford has had two surgeons," Mr. Graines began.

"Then he must have been very badly wounded!" ejaculated Florry, leaping
to a very hasty conclusion.

"Not at all," protested the engineer. "Both of them said he was not
severely wounded."

"Why was he sent home on a furlough?" asked Mrs. Passford.

"Because the weather was getting very hot in the Gulf of Mexico, and
it was believed that he would do better at home. He has been somewhat
feverish; but he is improving every day, and in a couple of weeks he
will be as well as ever."

"Thank God, it is no worse!" exclaimed Mrs. Passford.

Then she insisted that he should be quiet, and they all retired to the
library.




CHAPTER XXIV

LIEUTENANT-COMMANDER CHRISTOPHER PASSFORD


Christy Passford dropped asleep when left alone in the sitting-room, and
his slumber lasted a full hour. During this time Mr. Graines had related
the incidents of the action in which he had been wounded, and given a
full account of the expedition to Mobile Point. He was not sparing in
his praise; but he brought it out in what had been said by others,
especially by the commanders of both vessels and in the demonstrations
of the seamen of the Bellevite.

When the wounded officer awoke it was with a start, and he was surprised
to find he had been asleep in the midst of such happy surroundings. He
rose from his couch, and found that his mother and sister had left the
room. He passed out into the hall, and there heard the voice of the
engineer in the library which he entered at once.

"I hope you feel better, my son," said his mother, as she and Florry
rose from their chairs rejoicing anew at his return home after the
fearful peril through which he had passed, for the recital of his
brilliant exploits by his friend had been intensely thrilling to both
of them.

"I'm all right, mother dear; I was only tired a little, for I have
taken more exercise to-day than usual lately," replied Christy, as Mrs.
Passford kissed him again and again, and Florry followed her example.

"Charley Graines has told us all about it, Christy," said his sister.

"So you have been spinning a yarn, have you, Charley?" asked the hero.

"I have related only the simple truth, Christy, for I knew you would not
tell them the whole of it," replied the engineer.

"I am afraid you were reckless, my son," added Mrs. Passford.

"Reckless!" exclaimed Christy. "When I saw my duty there was no
alternative but to do it; and that was all I did. You have been
decorating your yarn, Charley."

"Not a particle; and Captain Breaker would confirm everything I have
said," protested Mr. Graines. "So would Captain Rombold, if he were
here, as I suppose he will be soon."

"That reminds me, mother, that you are to have some visitors; for I
expect Captain Rombold and Dr. Davidson will be here some time to-day,
for I have spoken to have them paroled," interposed Christy.

"Who is Dr. Davidson, my son?" asked his mother.

"He was the surgeon of the Tallahatchie. Both of your visitors are
rebels to the very core," added the lieutenant playfully. "I was hit in
the arm by a bullet when I was in the mizzen rigging; but I did not
report to the surgeon"--

"As you ought to have done," interrupted the engineer.

"Dr. Linscott had his hands full, and I did not want to bother him then.
I went on board of the prize to take a look at the disabled Armstrong
gun. Captain Rombold, who was wounded in the right thigh, was sitting on
the quarter-deck. He spoke to me, for I was well acquainted with him.
While we were talking, I began to feel faint, and slumped down on the
deck like a woman. The captain sent for his surgeon, though his own
wound had not been dressed; and Dr. Davidson was the gentleman who came,
and very soon I felt better. They treated me like a brother; and that is
the reason I have asked to have them both sent here."

"I am very glad you did, Christy; and we will do everything we can for
them," added Mrs. Passford.

The father and mother of Mr. Graines lived in Montgomery, two miles
distant, and he was anxious to see them. Leaving Christie in the hands
of his mother and sister, he took his leave early in the afternoon.
Later in the day a carriage stopped at the mansion, and the expected
visitors, attended by the naval officer who had paroled them, were
admitted by the servant. As soon as they were announced, Christy
hastened to the hall, followed by his mother and sister. The captain
carried a crutch, and was also supported by the doctor and the naval
lieutenant.

"I am very glad to see you, Captain Rombold," said Christy, as he gave
his hand to the commander. "And you, Dr. Davidson;" and he proceeded to
present them to his mother and sister.

"This is Lieutenant Alburgh of your navy, Mr. Passford; and he has been
very attentive to us," interposed the surgeon, introducing the paroling
officer.

"I am very happy to know you, Mr. Alburgh;" and he presented him to Mrs.
Passford and Florry.

The lieutenant declined an invitation to dinner; for he was in haste to
return to New York, going back to the station in the carriage that had
brought him. Mrs. Passford invited the party to the sitting-room, and
Christy and the doctor assisted the wounded commander. He was placed
upon the sofa, where he reclined, supported by the cushions arranged by
the lady of the house.

"I am extremely grateful to you both, gentlemen, for your kindness to my
son when he was beyond my reach, and it affords me very great pleasure
to obtain the opportunity to reciprocate it in some slight degree," said
Mrs. Passford, when the captain declared that he was very comfortable in
his position on the sofa.

"And I thank you with all my heart for what you did for my brother,"
added Florry.

"You more than repay me; and, madam, permit me to congratulate you on
being the mother of such a son as Lieutenant Passford," replied Captain
Rombold warmly. "I am still a rebel to the very centre of my being; but
that does not prevent me from giving the tribute of my admiration to
an enemy who has been as brave, noble, and generous as your son. The
brilliant exploit of Mr. Passford, I sincerely believe, cost me my ship,
and at least the lives or limbs of a quarter of my ship's company. It
was one of the most daring and well-executed movements I ever witnessed
in my life, madam."

"Please to let up, Captain," interposed Christy, blushing as Florry
would have done if Paul Vapoor had entered the room at that moment.

"He is as modest as he is brave, Mrs. Passford. It was sheer admiration
for the young officer which compelled me to send for my own surgeon when
he sank fainting upon the deck, with the blood streaming from the ends
of his fingers," added the commander.

"If you are going to talk about this matter the rest of the day, Captain
Rombold, I must beg you to excuse me if I retire," interposed Christy,
rising from his chair.

"I won't say another word about it, Mr. Passford!" protested the
captain. "But I hope your mother will have a chance to read Captain
Breaker's report of the action, for he and I are of the same opinion in
regard to the conduct of your son."

"My husband will doubtless bring me a copy of it," added the lady.

In deference to the wishes of Christy, nothing more was said about
the action, at least so far as it related to him. After some general
conversation, the surgeon suggested that he had not dressed the wounds
of his patients that day, and the commander was assisted to the
principal guest chamber, while the lieutenant went to his own apartment.

Captain Passford was detained three days in Washington by important
business at the Navy Department. Captain Breaker's report of the
action resulting in the capture of the Tallahatchie had reached its
destination, and the proud father was in possession of all the details
of the battle. He telegraphed and wrote to his son; and it was another
joyful occasion at Bonnydale when he arrived there.

Dr. Davidson remained at the mansion for three weeks, until his patients
were convalescent, though he went every day to the hospital of the
prisoners of war to see the wounded of his ship. Captain Passford had
given the visitors a very cordial and hearty welcome on his return, and
expressed his gratitude to them for their kindness to his son in the
strongest terms. He did every possible thing to promote their comfort
and happiness, and the reign of Christianity continued at Bonnydale as
it had been begun on board of the Bellevite and the Tallahatchie.

In two weeks Christy's wound had practically healed, though his arm was
not yet the equal of the other. His father spent all the time he could
spare at home, and long talks between father and son were the order of
the day. The lieutenant had been informed on his arrival of the death of
Mr. Pembroke, Bertha's father, two months before; but she had gone to
visit an uncle in Ohio, and Christy had not yet seen her.

"I expect Miss Pembroke will be here to-morrow, Christy," said Captain
Passford one day, about three weeks after his return. "I suppose you are
of the same mind in regard to her."

"I am, father," replied Christy, for he was about the same as a younger
brother in his relations with him. "But I have not heard a word from
her, any more than from you, since I left home."

"There has been no occasion to send a store-ship or other vessel to
the Eastern Gulf squadron, though one sailed about a week before your
arrival, and letters were forwarded to you," replied the captain.
"Doubtless one or more went from her to you. She cannot have heard of
your arrival; for I lost the address of her uncle in Ohio, and we could
not write to her. Her father had a little property; and at her request I
have been appointed her guardian, and she will reside at Bonnydale in
the future."

Bertha Pembroke arrived the next day, and what Christy needed to
complete his happiness was supplied, and now his cup was overflowing.
But he did not forget that he still owed a duty to his suffering
country. Even the fascinations of the beautiful girl could not entice
him to remain in his beloved home while his arm was needed to help on
the nation's cause to a victorious Union.

At the end of four weeks, he felt as well as ever before in his life,
and he was impatient to return to the Bellevite. For a week before he
had been talking to his father about the matter; and Bertha knew her
betrothed, as he was by this time, too well to make any objection to his
intended departure.

The Tallahatchie had been promptly condemned, and the fact that she was
a superior vessel for war purposes, and her great speed compared with
most vessels in the navy, had caused her to be appropriated to the use
of the government. Orders had been given weeks before for her thorough
repair and better armament, all of which had been hastily accomplished.
Christy had not been to New York since his return; and for some reason
of his own, his father had said very little to him about the service,
perhaps believing that his son had better give his whole mind to the
improvement of his health and strength.

"I hope you have found a vessel by which I can return to the Eastern
Gulf squadron, father," said Christy one morning, with more earnestness
than usual. "I begin to feel guilty of neglect of duty while I am
loafing about home."

"Don't trouble yourself, my son," replied Captain Passford, who seemed
to be rather exhilarated about something. "You shall return to your duty
in due time, though not in exactly the same position as before."

"Am I to be appointed to some other ship, father?" asked Christy, gazing
earnestly into the captain's face to read what was evidently passing in
his mind, for it made him very cheerful.

"You are to sail in another ship, Christy; but wait a minute and I will
return," said Captain Passford, as he left the sitting-room and went to
his library.

Opening his safe he took from it a ponderous envelope bearing official
imprints, and returned to the sitting-room. Handing it to his son, he
dropped into an arm-chair and observed him with close attention.

"What's this, father?" asked the young officer.

"I have had it about three weeks, but waited for your entire recovery
before I gave it to you," replied the captain. "Open it."

Christy did so, read it, and then in his excitement, dropped it on the
floor. It was his commission as a lieutenant-commander.




CHAPTER XXV

THE PRINCIPAL OFFICERS OF THE ST. REGIS


Christy Passford was astounded and confounded when he read the
commission. He modestly believed that he had already been promoted
beyond his deserving, though no one else, not even his father, thought
so. He had not sought promotion at any time, and he had been hurried
through four grades in something over three years. He was the heir of
millions, and he had given all his pay to wounded sailors and the
families of those who had fallen in naval actions.

His share of the prize money resulting from the captures in which he had
taken part as commander or in some subordinate position had made him a
rich man; and with his mother's assistance, he was disbursing no small
portion of his wealth among those who had been deprived of their support
by the casualties of the war. He had not expected or even hoped for any
further promotion, though the newspaper had extolled to the skies his
brilliant exploit in the Gulf.

"What does this mean, father?" asked Christy, dropping into a chair as
if overwhelmed by the contents of the envelope.

"It means just what it says, my son," replied Captain Passford. "But
I know that it is necessary now for me to explain that this promotion
is none of my doing; for I have not asked it, I have not urged it,
I have not made the remotest suggestion that you should be made a
lieutenant-commander, as I have not done on any former occasion."

"That is enough, father; your plea of not guilty would have been enough
to satisfy me," added Christy.

"I prevented your appointment to the command of the Chateaugay, and
procured your position as second lieutenant of the Bellevite; and these
two instances are absolutely all the requests I have ever made to the
department in relation to you," protested the captain.

"That helps the matter very much," answered Christy. "I have been the
victim of supposed partiality, 'a friend at court' and all that sort of
thing, till I am disgusted with it."

"And all that has been in consequence of your over-sensitiveness rather
than anything that ever was said about you."

"Perhaps it was. But as a lieutenant-commander I might still remain as
executive officer of the Bellevite, for Captain Breaker has been a
commander for over two years," suggested Christy.

"The department has made another disposition of you, and without any
hint or suggestion from me, my son," said Captain Passford, as he took
another envelope from his pocket, and presented it to his son. "This
came to me by this morning's mail; and I have withheld the commission
till I received it."

"And what may this be, father?" asked Christy, looking from the missive
to the captain's face, which was glowing with smiles, for he was as
proud of his only son as he ought to have been.

"Christy, you remind me of some old ladies I have met, who, when they
receive a letter, wonder for five or ten minutes whom it is from before
they break the envelope, when a sight of the contents would inform them
instantly," added the captain, laughing.

"But I am afraid the contents of this envelope will be like the
explosion of a mine to me, and therefore I am not just like the old
ladies you have met," returned the lieutenant-commander. "One mine a day
let off in my face is about all I can stand."

"Open the envelope!" urged his father rather impatiently.

"It never rains but it pours!" exclaimed Christy, when he had looked
over the paper it enclosed. "I am appointed to the command of the St.
Regis! I think some one who gives names to our new vessels must have
spent a summer with Paul Smith at his hotel by the river and lake of
that name; and the same man probably selected the name of Chateaugay.
I suppose it is some little snapping gunboat like the Bronx; but I don't
object to her on that account."

"She is nothing like the Bronx, for she is more than twice as large; and
you have already seen some service on her deck."

"Some steamer that has had her name changed. But I have served regularly
only on board of the Bellevite and the Bronx, and it cannot be either of
them," said Christy, with a puzzled expression.

"She is neither the one nor the other. She has had three names: the
first was the Trafalgar, the second the Tallahatchie, and the third the
St. Regis," continued the captain.

"Is it possible!" exclaimed Christy, relapsing into silent
thoughtfulness, for he could hardly believe the paper from which he had
read his appointment; and officers far his senior in years would have
rejoiced to receive the command of such a ship.

"Not only possible, but an accomplished fact; and the only sad thing
about it is that you must sail in the St. Regis day after to-morrow."

"I am informed that my orders will come by to-morrow," added the
lieutenant-commander.

"The ship is all ready for sea. An eight-inch Parrot has been
substituted for the Armstrong gun, the same as the midship gun of the
Bellevite," the captain explained. "Perhaps you would like to know
something about your fellow-officers, Christy."

"I certainly should, father, for whatever success I may have will depend
largely upon them," replied the embryo commander of the St. Regis.

"Your executive officer will be Lieutenant George Baskirk," continued
Captain Passford, reading from a paper he took from his pocket.

"Good! He was the second lieutenant of the Bronx when I was in command
of her; and a better or braver officer never planked a deck."

"He was available, and I suggested him. Your second lieutenant is Joel
Makepeace, just promoted from the rank of master. He is fifty-two years
old, but as active as ever he was. He is a regular old sea dog, and
commanded an Indiaman for me fifteen years ago; but you never met him.
He has made a good record in the war, and I feel sure that you will like
him."

"I have no doubt I shall, father; and I like the idea of having an
officer who is old enough to be my father, and who has had a great deal
of experience at sea," replied Christy.

"He was an able seaman and petty officer in the navy for three years
when he was a young man, and has served as a master from the beginning
of the war," continued Captain Passford.

"Probably he does not like the idea of being under the command of one
who has not yet reached his majority in years," suggested the commander
of the St. Regis.

"On the contrary, he seemed to be delighted with his appointment. Your
third lieutenant is Ensign Palmer Drake who brought home your prize."

"He is a good man and a good officer, and I am entirely satisfied with
him."

"Ensign Barton French is to serve as master on board of your ship. Some
doubts were expressed in regard to his knowledge of navigation, and he
passed a very creditable examination."

"I am very glad indeed that he has obtained his promotion, and that he
is to sail with me," added Christy, who had taken quite an interest in
him as an able seaman, and had procured his appointment as prize-master
of the West Wind.

"Dr. Connolly, who was with you in the Bronx, is your surgeon. The
chief engineer of the St. Regis is one Paul Vapoor," continued Captain
Passford, with a very obvious twinkle of the eyes.

"Paul Vapoor!" exclaimed Christy, leaping out of the chair in which he
had just settled himself after the excitement of his father's first
announcement had partly subsided.

"Paul Vapoor," repeated the captain.

"It can hardly be possible," persisted Christy.

"What is the matter? Has Captain Breaker fallen out with him?"

"Not at all; the commander of the Bellevite thinks as much of him as
ever he did, and even a great deal more."

"Then how under the canopy does Paul happen to be appointed to the St.
Regis?" demanded Christy.

Captain Passford took from his pocket a letter he had received from
Captain Breaker, and proceeded to read portions of it, as follows:
"If Christy is not promoted and given an adequate independent command,
I shall be disappointed; and given such whether he consents or not. He
has never been wanting in anything; and though I say it to his father,
there is not a more deserving officer in the service, not even one
who is ten years older. I have expressed myself fully in my report.
I believe his gallant exploit in the late action with the Tallahatchie
saved the lives of at least one-fourth of my ship's company; and it
thinned out the ranks of the enemy in about the same proportion. Captain
Rombold insists that he should have captured the Bellevite if the tide
had not been thus turned against him; but I do not admit this,
of course.

"I still set the highest value upon the services of Chief Engineer Paul
Vapoor, and I should regret exceedingly to lose him. But Christy and
Paul have been the most intimate friends from their school days; and if
your son is appointed to an independent command, as I believe he ought
to be, it would do something towards reconciling him to his appointment
if his crony were in the same ship with him. For this reason, and this
alone, I am willing to sacrifice my own wishes to the good of the
service. I have talked with Paul about the matter, and he would be
delighted to be the companion of Christy, even in a small steamer."

"Captain Breaker is very kind and very considerate, as he always was;
and I shall certainly feel more at home on board of the St. Regis with
Paul Vapoor as her chief engineer," replied Christy; and the effect
seemed to be what the commander of the Bellevite anticipated. "Go on
with the list, father."

"Paul's first assistant engineer will be Charles Graines," continued
Captain Passford.

"That is very good; but Charley is a sailor as well as a machinist,
and I may borrow him of Paul on some special occasions, for he has what
Captain Breaker calls ingenuity, as well as bravery and skill."

"The second assistant is Amos Bolter, a brother of Leon, who has been
first assistant of the Bellevite from the beginning of the war, and who
has been promoted to chief at the suggestion of the commander in the
letter from which I have just read. The third assistant is John
McLaughlin, whom Paul knows if you do not. These are your principal
officers; and we had better go and see your mother and Florry now."

"I have good news for you and your family, Captain Passford, for I am
informed that I have been exchanged, and need trespass no longer upon
your generous and kindly hospitality," said the commander.

"That is no news to me, Captain Rombold, for I had the pleasure of
suggesting the officers for whom you and the doctor might be exchanged,"
replied the host with a pleasant laugh. "But I assure you in all
sincerity that you have both of you been the farthest possible from
trespassers."

"I do not feel that I have yet half reciprocated the kindness you
extended to my son," added Mrs. Passford.

"I wish I could do ten times as much for you as I have been able to do,"
said Florry.

"Though wounded I have passed four of the pleasantest weeks of my life
here; and I shall never forget your kindness to me," said the commander,
grasping the hand of his host; and his example was followed by the
surgeon.

"We have been made happier by your presence with us than we could have
made you, gentlemen," added Mrs. Passford.

Not a word about politics or the cause of the war had been spoken.




CHAPTER XXVI

THE ST. REGIS IN COMMISSION


The kindly expressions of feeling which passed between the hosts and
their guests were far from being mere compliments, for the Confederate
commander and surgeon had made themselves very agreeable. Quite a number
of pleasant parties had been given in compliment to them and Christy.
But the family felt that they owed a debt of gratitude to their guests
which they could not repay; and enemies though they were, the most
eminent personages on the Federal side could not have been better
treated.

"I am sorry you are going, though I congratulate you on the prospect now
before you of returning to your friends," said Captain Passford, after
the conversation had continued for half an hour. "But I did not come in
to receive your adieus; only to introduce to you, and to Mrs. Passford
and Florry, a new character, who has just stepped upon the stage of
action."

"Draw it mild, papa," interposed Christy, shrugging his shoulders.

"I have the pleasure of presenting to you Lieutenant-Commander
Christopher Passford."

Captain Rombold and Dr. Davidson set to clapping their hands as though
they had suddenly gone crazy. When the former had nearly blistered his
own, he rushed to the newly-promoted, and grasped his hands with a
pressure which made the recipient of his warm greeting squirm with pain.

"I congratulate you with all my heart and mind, Commander Passford," he
added, with exceeding warmth. "I know that you deserved this promotion,
and I was sure you would get it from the moment I saw you in the mizzen
rigging of the Bellevite, and within the same minute leaping over the
rail of the Tallahatchie, closely followed by thirty or forty of your
seamen. I lost all hope of taking your ship then, for almost at the same
instant came the discharge of the thirty-pounder I had prepared to lay
low half your boarders. I told you this would come, but you seemed to be
doubtful of it; and I repeat what I have said before, that God makes
some fully-developed men before they are twenty-one."

The surgeon followed the example of his fellow-prisoner; and then
Christy's mother and sister hugged and kissed him, and he heartily
returned their affectionate embraces.

"I have only to add that my son has been appointed to the command of the
St. Regis, a steamer of over eight hundred tons, and reputed to have a
speed of twenty knots an hour, though I have some doubts in regard to
the last item," said Captain Passford.

"I cannot wish him success in his new command, for that would be
treason; but I have no doubt he will damage our cause even more than he
has in the past; and so far as he is personally concerned, I can wish
him success with all my heart," added Captain Rombold. "I have kept a
list of the names of the vessels in the Federal navy so far as I could
obtain them; but it does not include the St.-- What you call her?
I never heard the name before."

"The St. Regis, after a river in the Adirondacks," said Captain
Passford, laughing. "But I can assure you, Captain, that you know her
better than any of the rest of us, for I never even saw her."

"The St. Regis?" interrogated the commander, puzzled by the assertion.

"Just now this steamer is something like a newly-married widow, for she
is entering upon her third name," continued the host, very lightly.
"Formerly she was the Trafalgar, a highly honored name in British
history; but more recently she received the name of Tallahatchie; and
now she becomes the St. Regis."

"I see," replied the Confederate commander, evidently trying to hide his
intense chagrin that the magnificent steamer, purchased by Colonel Homer
Passford for him, had so soon become a ship belonging to the Federal
navy. "You expressed a doubt in regard to her speed, my dear Captain."

"I simply doubted if she could make twenty knots an hour, for the
Bellevite overhauled her without difficulty."

"That was because our coal was very bad. The Trafalgar made twenty knots
an hour several times when she was under my command."

"So much the better, Captain; if the speed is in her, her new engineer
will get it out of her," replied the host. "But I must take the next
train for New York, and I am going over to see the St. Regis, for she
has been put in the best of repair. Perhaps you would like to go with
me, Christy."

"I should, father; I was expecting Charley Graines over this morning,
and he would like to see his future home on the deep," replied the
lieutenant-commander.

"He is in the reception-room now, waiting to see you," said Florry.

"I have his appointment in my pocket, and you may give it to him, my
son," added the captain.

The guests were not to leave at once, and the trio hastened to the
train. As soon as they were seated, Christy gave his friend the envelope
containing his appointment, and Charley Graines was quite as happy as
the future commander of the St. Regis. On the way the latter gave the
other all the news that had come out that morning.

"I suppose Paul Vapoor will not come on board till we get to the Gulf,
father," said Christy.

"You will receive your orders to-morrow, as you have been advised; and
though I cannot properly inform you where you will be bound, I can tell
you where you are not bound; you are not going to the Gulf of Mexico,"
answered Captain Passford.

"Not to the Gulf? All my service so far in blockaders has been in the
Gulf, and this will be a tremendous change for me. But where shall we
pick up our chief engineer?"

"About all the business growing out of the capture of the Tallahatchie,
including the promotions, was done very nearly four weeks ago. I was in
Washington when Captain Breaker's very full report came, and the
officers were promoted then. The appointments were also made then; but I
have been obliged, for reasons not necessary to be named, to keep them
to myself. The steamer that carried a cargo of coal, provisions, and
stores to the Eastern Gulf squadron, was the bearer of Paul's
appointment to the St. Regis, and Mr. Bolter's commission as chief
engineer of the Bellevite. Your friend was ordered to report at the
Brooklyn Navy Yard at once. The steamer in which he came put in at
Delaware Breakwater, short of coal. He will be here by to-morrow
morning, or sooner."

After a visit at his office Captain Passford and his companions
proceeded to the navy yard. The St. Regis was off the shore at
anchor. She was a magnificent steamer; and the captain indulged in an
exclamation, which he seldom did, when she was pointed out to him. She
was all ready for sea, and would go into commission as soon as her
commander presented himself. They went on board of her, and were
heartily welcomed by such officers as had already occupied their
staterooms.

Captain Passford went all over her, accompanied by Christy, while the
new first assistant engineer confined his attention to the engine. The
lieutenant-commander informed the proper officer of the yard that he
would hoist the flag on board of the St. Regis at noon the next day. The
party took their leave, and in the afternoon returned to Bonnydale.

The guests were now relieved from their parole, and they took their
leave before night, with a repetition of the good wishes which had been
expressed before. The next morning Christy was at the railroad station
on the arrival of the train from New York, and the first person that
rushed into his arms like a school-girl was Paul Vapoor. Of course
Christy was delighted to see him, but he kept watching the steps of the
principal car all the time. At last he discovered Bertha Pembroke, and
he rushed to her, leaving Paul talking into the air.

He grasped the beautiful maiden by both hands, and both of them blushed
like a carnation pink. The young officer was not given to demonstrations
in public, and he reserved them to a more suitable occasion. He picked
up her hand-bag and bundles which she had dropped when the lover took
possession of her, and conducted her to his father's carriage.

Christy presented her to Paul, who had heard much about her, but had
never seen her. He was simply polite, though there was mischief in his
eye, and the commander was in danger of being teased very nicely when
they were alone together. Both Bertha and Paul were cordially welcomed
by Mrs. Passford and Florry, and Christy needed nothing more to complete
his happiness.

But there was no time to spare, and Captain Passford hurried them
without mercy, and without considering that the lovers had not met
before for several months; but the commander of the St. Regis was to
hoist his flag at noon, and there was no room for long speeches. Christy
and Paul hurried themselves into their new uniforms, not made for the
occasion, but kept in store. The engineer's uniform was all right as it
was, for he had before reached the top of the ladder in his profession,
but Flurry had changed the shoulder-straps of her brother.

Captain Passford was not remorseless in separating the newly reunited
friends; for Paul and Flora had done some blushing, and had crept away
into a corner of the great drawing-room as soon as he had put on his
best uniform, and he finally insisted that all the ladies should go to
the navy yard and witness the ceremony. The company were rather late;
but the captain had sent a man to the station in advance, and the train
was held for them.

It is hardly necessary to state in what manner the seats in the car were
occupied; but the captain and Mrs. Passford had to sit together. A navy
yard tugboat was at the foot of Grand Street on the arrival of the
party, for it had been telegraphed for early in the morning. Captain
Passford was a very distinguished magnate in the eyes of all naval
officers, not only on account of his great wealth, but because he was
the most influential man in the city at the department.

Half an hour before the time the party were on the deck of the St.
Regis. All the officers were now on board; and while Paul was showing
the ladies over the vessel, the commander was renewing his acquaintance
with Mr. Baskirk, the executive officer. His father introduced Mr.
Makepeace to him; and he found him a sturdy old salt, without as much
polish as many of the officers, but a gentleman in every respect.

"I am very glad to know you, Captain Passford," said Mr. Makepeace. "We
have one of the most brilliant commanders in the service, and I suppose
he will make things hum on board of the St. Regis, if we get into
action, as we are likely to do under his lead."

"I shall try to do my whole duty, and I shall endeavor not to make any
sensation about it," replied Christy, as he turned from the second to
greet the third lieutenant, Mr. Drake, who had been his shipmate on
board of the Bellevite, and the commander of the Tallahatchie while he
was a passenger on board.

The ship's company had already been mustered on deck. They were dressed
in their best uniforms, and they were a fine-looking set of men. They
had all heard of Lieutenant Passford, and they were proud and happy to
serve under his command. Promptly at noon, as the church bells on shore
were striking the hour, Commander Passford mounted a dais, and his
commission was read to the ship's company. He then made a short speech
suited to the occasion, and ordered the colors to be run up to the peak.
The ship was then in commission, and she was to sail on the tide the
next day. The subordinate officers and seamen then gave three cheers,
in which every person seemed to put his whole heart.

Christy conducted Bertha to the captain's cabin, which had been
restored to its original condition and refurnished. A lunch was served
to the whole party under an awning on the quarter-deck. Mr. Drake, an
eye-witness and actor in the battle, fought it over for the benefit of
the ladies; and before night they all returned to Bonnydale, where it
required at least three rooms to accommodate them during the evening.




CHAPTER XXVII

CAPTAIN PASSFORD ALONE IN HIS GLORY


Christy Passford was stirring at an early hour the next morning, and
so was Bertha Pembroke; for the St. Regis was to sail that day, though
the tide did not serve till four in the afternoon. After breakfast
his father called him into the library, and closed the door. Captain
Passford had remained in the city the evening before till the last
train, and it was evident that he had something to say to his son.

"I have no information to give you this time, Christy, in regard to the
coming of blockade-runners or steamers for the Confederate navy," said
he. "But I have been instructed to use my own judgment in regard to what
I may say to you about your orders. Of course you have observed that the
blockading squadrons in the Gulf have been greatly reduced."

"Only the Bellevite and Holyoke remained off the entrance to Mobile
Bay," added Christy. "We have had a very quiet time of it since I joined
the Bellevite, and the action with the Tallahatchie was really the only
event of any great importance in which I have been engaged."

"The enemy and their British allies have been so unfortunate in the
Gulf that they have chosen a safer approach to the shores of the South.
Nearly all the blockade-runners at the present time go in at the Cape
Fear River, where the shoal water favors them. A class of steamers of
light draft and great speed are constructed expressly to go into
Wilmington. Over $65,000,000 have been invested in blockade-running;
and in spite of the capture of at least one a week by our ships, the
business appears to pay immense profits. The port of Charleston is
closed to them now, as well as many others."

"I have studied this locality of the coast at the mouth of the Cape Fear
River, and the blockade-runners certainly have their best chance there,"
said Christy.

"The whole attention of the government, so far as blockade-running is
concerned, has been directed to the approaches of Wilmington. Forts
Fisher, Caswell, and Smith afford abundant protection to the light draft
steamers as soon as they get into the shoal water where our gunboats as
a rule cannot follow them. The one thing we need down there is fast
steamers. It is a stormy coast, and our smaller gunboats cannot safely
lie off the coast."

"I have read that a single successful venture in this business sometimes
pays for the steamer many times over."

"That is quite true, and the business prospers, though there are
fifty or more Federal cruisers and gunboats patrolling the shore. Now,
Christy, you are to be sent to this locality with the St. Regis; but you
are to be in the outer circle of blockaders, so to speak, as your sealed
orders will inform you."

"Of course I shall obey my orders, whatever they are," added the
commander.

"I have nothing more to say, and you will regard what has passed between
you and me as entirely confidential," said Captain Passford, as he rose
to leave the library.

"By the way, father, what has become of Monsieur Gilfleur?" asked
Christy. "I have not seen him since my return."

"Just now he is working up a case of treason in Baltimore, though I
expected him home before this time," replied the captain.

"I am sorry I have not seen him, for he and I had become great friends
before we parted. I think he is in some respects a remarkable man."

"In his profession he is unexcelled; and what is more in that line, he
is honest and reliable."

"I learned all that of him while we were operating together. It is said,
and I suppose it is true, that about every one of the blockaders makes a
port at Halifax, the Bermudas, or Nassau, as much to learn the news and
obtain a pilot, as to replenish their coal and stores."

"That is unfortunately true; and the neutrality of these places is
strained to its utmost tension, to say nothing of its manifest
violations."

"I think if Monsieur Gilfleur and myself could make another visit to the
Bermudas and Nassau, we might pick up information enough to insure the
capture of many blockade-runners, and perhaps of an occasional
Confederate cruiser," said Christy, laughing as he spoke.

"That is not the sort of business for a lieutenant-commander in the
navy, my son; but I have thought of sending the detective on such a
mission since the remarkable success you and he had in your former
venture. But you escaped hanging or a Confederate prison only by the
skin of your teeth. The difficulty in another enterprise of that sort
would be for Mr. Gilfleur to put the information he obtained where it
would do the most good. If he wrote letters, they would betray him; and
if he went off in a Bahama boat, as he did before, we should have to
keep a steamer cruising in the vicinity of his field of operations to
meet him when he came off. I came to the conclusion that the scheme was
impracticable, for it was only a combination of favorable circumstances
that rendered your operations successful. I prefer to trust to the speed
of the St. Regis to enable you to accomplish the same results off the
coast," said Captain Passford, as they left the library.

"I should really like to see Monsieur, for he is a very agreeable
companion," replied Christy.

"He would be exceedingly pleased to meet you again, for he had become
very much attached to you."

After lunch the same party that had visited the St. Regis the day before
left on the train for New York, and proceeded to the navy yard from the
foot of Grand Street, for all of them wished to see Christy off. Captain
Passford, Junior, was received on board of his ship with all due form
and ceremony. Paul Vapoor had been to his home for a brief visit to his
mother and sisters; but he had gone to Bonnydale as early in the morning
as it was decent to do so, and was all devotion to Florry.

Mr. Baskirk, the executive officer, had the ship in first-rate order
when the commander went on board with his party; and as there was
nothing for him to do, Christy devoted himself to the entertainment of
his friends. The ladies with their escorts went all over the steamer
again; the commander and Paul opened their staterooms for their
examination, and Charley Graines showed them that of the first assistant
engineer in the steerage.

"But you have a whole cabin to yourself, Christy," said Bertha, after
she looked into all the other rooms.

"I have the honor to be the commander of the ship," replied Christy
lightly. "I have two state-rooms, so that if I had the happiness to
relieve a forlorn maiden from captivity on board of one of the enemy's
vessels, as I did in your case, Bertha, I should have a better apartment
to offer her than I had then."

The first half of the afternoon passed away all too soon for those who
were to sail on the tide, and those who were to return to Bonnydale.
The commander took leave of his parents, his sister, and Bertha in his
cabin, where Paul passed through the same ordeal with Miss Florry. The
navy-yard tender was alongside; and the ladies were assisted on board of
her by the officers, while the seamen under the direction of Mr.
Makepeace were heaving up the anchor.

"Cable up and down, sir," reported the second lieutenant.

This was the signal for the departure of the tender; and another hasty
adieu followed, when the commander and the chief engineer hastened to
the deck. The men forward had suspended their labor when the cable was
up and down. The commander gave the order to weigh the anchor. The tide
was still on the flood, and the head of the ship was pointed very nearly
in the direction she was to sail.

"Anchor aweigh, sir!" reported Mr. Makepeace.

"Strike one bell, Mr. Baskirk," said Christy; and the order was repeated
to the quartermaster who was conning the wheel.

The screw of the St. Regis began to turn, and she went ahead very
slowly. The tender was a short distance from her, and all the ladies
were waving their handkerchiefs with all their might; and their signals
were returned, not only by Christy and Paul, but by all the officers on
deck. The seamen could not comfortably "hold in," and they saluted the
tender with three rousing cheers, for they knew that the family of their
young commander were on board of her.

The little steamer followed the ship till she had passed the Battery,
a repetition of the former salute, and then the tender sheered off, and
went up North River, the ship proceeding on her course for the scene of
her future exploits. The parting of Christy with his father, mother, and
sister had been less sad than on former occasions; for they believed,
whether with good reason or not, that the son, brother, and lover was to
be exposed to less peril than usual.

Christy had received his sealed orders on board from an officer sent
specially to deliver them to him in person; and he was instructed to
open the envelope off Cape Henlopen. At six o'clock the St. Regis was
off Sandy Hook. Four bells, which was the signal to the engine room to
go ahead at full speed, had been sounded as soon as the ship had passed
through the Narrows.

After the young commander had taken his supper, solitary and alone in
his great cabin, he went on deck. No one shared his spacious apartment
with him, and he was literally alone in his glory. But he did not object
to his solitude, for he had enough to think of; and though he did not
betray it in his expression, he was in a state of excitement, for what
young fellow, even if "fully developed before he was twenty-one," could
have helped being exhilarated when he found himself in command of such
an exceptionally fine and fast ship as the St. Regis.

When he went on deck, for he seemed to need more air than usual to
support the immense amount of internal life that was stirring his being,
he met Paul Vapoor coming up from the ward room, where he messed with
seven other officers.

"I hope you are feeling very well, Captain Passford," said Paul, as he
touched his cap to the commander, for all familiarities were suspended
unless when they were alone; and habit generally banished them even
then.

"As well as usual, Mr. Vapoor," replied Christy. "How do you find the
engine?"

"In excellent condition, Captain. It was thoroughly overhauled at the
yard, boilers and machinery, and I have examined it down to the minutest
details."

"I have an idea that our speed will be more in demand than our fighting
strength on this cruise," added Christy.

"We are ready for speed in the engine room. The coal that remained on
board on the arrival of the ship at the yard was very bad; but it has
all been taken out, and our bunkers are filled with the best that could
be had, the master-machinist informed me yesterday," replied the chief
engineer. "I don't believe she could overhaul the Bellevite, for I am of
the opinion that she is the fastest sea-going steamer in the navy."

"I don't think we shall find any blockade-runner that can run away from
the Bellevite; for she has overhauled every one she chased off Mobile
Bay, and made a prize of her. I am to open my orders off Henlopen, and
then we shall know what our work is to be."

"About eight hours from Sandy Hook, as we are running now," added Paul.

"I am very impatient to read my orders, and I shall be called at one
o'clock for that purpose," added Christy, as he began to plank the deck
on the weather side.

The wind was from the north-west, and quite fresh. The men had had their
suppers, and he ordered Mr. Baskirk to make sail. The St. Regis was bark
rigged, and could spread a large surface of canvas. He desired to test
the qualities of his crew; and in a short time everything was drawing.
Christy "turned in" at nine o'clock; but he was excited, and he had not
slept a wink when he was called at the hour he had indicated.




CHAPTER XXVIII

OFF THE COAST OF NORTH CAROLINA


Having assured himself that the ship was fully up with Cape Henlopen,
Christy retired to his cabin, and still "alone in his glory," he broke
the seal of the official envelope. He was to cruise outside of the
blockaders, and report to the flag-officer when opportunity presented.
Just then it was believed that Richmond, which received all its foreign
supplies from Wilmington, could not long hold out if it was captured;
and the Secretary of the Navy was giving special attention to the forts
which protected it.

It was evident to the young commander that he was not to rust in
inactivity, as had been the case of late off Mobile Bay, and a wide
field of operations was open to him. His instructions were minute, but
they did not confine his ship to the immediate vicinity of the mouth of
the Cape Fear River. It was evident that the speed of the St. Regis had
been an important factor in framing the secret orders.

If a blockade-runner eluded or outsailed the vessels of the fleet near
the coast, the St. Regis was expected to "pick her up." On the other
hand, the fastest of the vessels were sent out farther from the shore,
and the ship was expected to support them. Christy realized that he
should be called upon to exercise his judgment in many difficult
situations, and he could only hope that he should be equal to such
occasions.

"Good-morning, Captain Passford," said Paul Vapoor, saluting him on the
quarter-deck. "I hope you slept well in your brief watch below."

"I did not sleep a wink, I was so anxious to read my orders. But I know
them now, and I feel as cool as an arctic iceberg. I shall sleep when I
turn in again."

"Well, where are we going, Captain, if it is no longer a secret?" asked
the engineer.

"It is not a secret now; and we are to cruise off the mouth of the
Cape Fear River," replied the commander, as he proceeded to give the
information more in detail.

"We are not likely to have any hot work then if we are only to chase
blockade-runners," added Paul.

"Probably we can render greater service to our country in this manner
than in any other way, or we should not have been sent to this quarter,"
said Christy, with a long gape.

Paul saw that his friend was sleepy, and he bade him good-night. The
commander went to his stateroom, and was soon fast asleep, from which he
did not wake till eight o' clock in the morning. When he went on deck
the ship was carrying all sail. The second lieutenant had the deck, and
he asked him what speed the steamer was making.

"The last log showed seventeen knots an hour," replied Mr. Makepeace.

"I hope you slept well, Captain Passford," said the chief engineer,
saluting him at this minute.

"I slept like a log till eight bells this morning," replied Christy.

"Mr. Makepeace reports the last log at seventeen knots," continued Paul.
"But the ship is not making revolutions enough per hour for more than
fifteen, for I have got the hang of her running now. The wind is blowing
half a gale, and the canvas is giving her two knots."

No events transpired on board worthy a special chronicle during the
day. The men were drilled in various exercises, and gave excellent
satisfaction to their officers. The next morning the St. Regis was off
Cape Hatteras, and though it is a greater bugbear than it generally
deserves, it gave the ship a taste of its quality. The wind had hauled
around to the south-west, and was blowing a lively gale. The sails had
been furled in the morning watch, and off the cape the course had been
changed to south-west.

Just before eight bells in the afternoon watch, when the ship was making
fifteen knots an hour, the lookout man on the top-gallant forecastle
called out "Sail, ho!" and all eyes were directed ahead.

"Where away?" demanded the officer of the deck sharply.

"Close on the lee bow, sir!" returned the lookout.

The commander was in his cabin studying the chart of the coast of North
Carolina; but the report was promptly sent to him, and he hastened on
deck.

"Another sail on the port bow, sir!" shouted a seaman who had been sent
to the fore cross trees with a spy-glass.

"What are they?" asked Christy, maintaining his dignity in spite of the
excitement which had begun to invade his being.

"Both steamers, sir," replied the officer of the deck.

"The head one is a blockade-runner, I know by the cut of her jib, sir,"
shouted the man with the glass on the cross trees.

All the glasses on board were immediately directed to the two vessels.
Christy could plainly make out the steamer that had the lead. She was a
piratical-looking craft, setting very low in the water, with two smoke
stacks, both raking at the same angle as her two masts. The wind was
not fair, and she could not carry sail; but the "bone in her teeth"
indicated that she was going through the water at great speed.

"A gun from the chaser, sir!" shouted the man aloft.

The cloud of smoke was seen, and the report of the gun reached the ears
of all on board the St. Regis.

"There is no mistaking what all that means, Mr. Baskirk," said Christy
when he had taken in the situation.

At the first announcement of the sail ahead, the commander had ordered
the chief engineer to get all the speed he could out of the ship. The
smoke was pouring out of the smoke stacks, for the St. Regis had two,
and presently she indicated what was going on in the fire room by
beginning to shake a little.

"Another sail dead ahead, sir!" called the man on the fore cross trees.

The glasses were directed to the third sail, and she proved to be a
steamer, also pursuing the one first seen. It was soon evident to the
observers that the blockade-runner, for the man aloft who had so defined
her was entirely correct, was gaining all the time on her pursuers. If
she had nothing but her two pursuers to fear, her troubles were really
over.

Both of the Federal ships were firing at the chase; but they might as
well have spared their powder and shot, for they could not reach her
into at least a quarter of a mile. The wind was still at the south-west,
and already there were signs of fog. The rakish steamer had probably
come from the Bermudas, where she must have obtained a skilful pilot,
for without one she would have had no chances at all; and she stood
boldly on her course as though she had nothing to fear on account of
the navigation.

"What are we going to have for weather, Mr. Makepeace?" asked Christy,
after a long look to windward.

"It looks a little nasty off towards the shore, sir," replied the second
lieutenant. "I should say it was going to be just what that pirate would
like to have."

"Why do you call her a pirate?" asked the commander with a smile.
"Probably she is not armed."

"I call her a pirate because she looks like one; but I think a
blockade-runner is a hundred degrees better than a pirate; and our
British friends plainly look upon them as doing a legitimate business.
I rather think that highflyer will run into a fog before she gets to the
shore."

"She has nothing to fear from the two steamers that are chasing her,"
added Christy. "We are to have a finger in this pie."

"No doubt of that; and I hope we shall make a hole through her before
she gets to the coast."

"She is not more than a mile and a half from us now, and our midship gun
is good for more than that; but I don't think it is advisable to waste
our strength in firing at her just yet."

"That's just my way of thinking," said Mr. Makepeace, with something
like enthusiasm in his manner; and he was evidently delighted to find
that the commander knew what he was about, as he would have phrased it.

"The rakish steamer seems to be headed to the west south-west, and she
is exactly south-east of us. We can see that she is sailing very fast;
but how fast has not yet been demonstrated. How high should you rate her
speed, Mr. Makepeace?"

"I should say, Captain Passford, that she was making eighteen knots an
hour. She is kicking up a big fuss about it; and I'll bet a long-nine
cigar that she is doing her level best."

"I don't believe she is doing any better than that," added Christy.
"Make the course south south-west, Mr. Baskirk."

"South south-west, sir," replied the executive officer.

The course of the ship was changed, and Christy planked the deck from
the quarter-deck to the forecastle in order to obtain the best view he
could of the relative positions of the St. Regis, the chase, and the two
steamers astern of her. The blockade-runner showed no colors; and no
flag could have been of any service to her. She appeared still to be
very confident that she was in no danger, evidently relying wholly upon
her great speed to carry her through to her destination.

The "highflyer," as the second lieutenant called her every time he
alluded to the blockade-runner, and the two pursuers, occupied the three
angles of a triangle. The latter were both sending needless cannon balls
in the direction of the chase, but not one of them came anywhere near
her.

On the other hand, the highflyer and the St. Regis formed two angles of
another triangle, the third of which was the point where they would come
together, if nothing occurred to derange their relative positions. By
this time Paul Vapoor had developed all the power of the ship's boilers,
and the screw was making more revolutions a minute than her highest
record, which was found in a book the former chief engineer had left
in his stateroom.

"I don't think that highflyer quite understands the situation, Mr.
Baskirk," said the commander, as he observed that she did not vary her
course, and stood on to her destination, apparently with perfect
confidence.

"I don't think she does, sir," replied the first lieutenant. "She can
see the American flag at the peak, and she knows what we are. Doubtless
she is making the mistake of believing that all the Federal ships are
slow coaches."

"Heave the log, Mr. Baskirk," added Christy, and he walked forward.

It was a matter of angles when it was desirable to come down to a close
calculation, and the young commander found his trigonometry very useful,
and fortunately not forgotten. With an apparatus for taking ranges he
had procured the bearing of the highflyer accurately as soon as the last
course was given out, perhaps half an hour before. He took the range
again, and found there was a slight difference, which was, however,
enough to show that the form of the triangle had been disturbed.

Both ships were headed for the same point, and the sides of the triangle
were equal at the first observation. Now the St. Regis's side of the
figure was perceptibly shorter than its opposite. This proved to the
captain that his ship had gained on the other. The two chasers had been
losing on the chase for the last half-hour, and Christy regarded them as
out of the game.

There was some appearance of fog in the south-west, and no land could
be seen in any direction. For another hour the St. Regis drove ahead
furiously on her course, and the highflyer was doing the same. The
two steamers, regardless of the speed of either, were necessarily
approaching each other as long as they followed the two sides of the
triangle. They had come within half a mile the one of the other, when
the commander gave the order to beat to quarters. Ten minutes later the
frame of the ship shook under the discharge of the big Parrot. The shot
went over the chase; but she promptly changed her course to the
southward.




CHAPTER XXIX

THE FIRST PRIZE OF THE ST. REGIS


The shot from the Parrot passed between the funnel and the mainmast of
the chase, as judged by the splash of the ball in the water just beyond
her. It had come near enough to the mark to wake up the captain of the
highflyer. He appeared to believe that the pursuer from the northward
had simply cut him off by approaching on the shorter side of the
triangle, and that all he had to do was to escape to the southward,
evidently satisfied that no steamer in the Federal navy could overhaul
him in a fair and square race.

"Now comes the tug of war," said Mr. Baskirk, when the St. Regis had
been headed for the chase.

"The game will not last all day," added Christy. "If I owned that
highflyer, I should not employ her present captain to sail her for me.
He is overloaded with a blind confidence, and he has made a very bad use
of his opportunities. If I had been in command of that steamer I should
have made her course so as to run away from all three of my pursuers as
soon as I made them out. It is six o'clock now, and I should have got
far enough into the darkness to give them all the slip, and gone into
Wilmington on a new track."

"Her captain appears to trust entirely to his heels, and to look
with contempt upon anything like manoeuvring," replied the first
lieutenant.

"But we must finish him up before the darkness enables him to give us
the slip. I have no doubt we could knock her all to pieces with the
midship gun in the next fifteen minutes; but if she can make eighteen
knots an hour, which we seem to be all agreed that she can do, she will
not be a useless addition to the United States Navy, and it would be a
pity to smash her up, for she is a good-looking craft. We are gaining
two knots an hour on her, and Mr. Vapoor is keeping things warm in the
engine and fire rooms."

"That is taking an economical view of the subject," added Mr. Baskirk,
laughing at the commander's utilitarian views.

"If we continue to fire into her, we must swing to every shot we send,
and that would take so much from our speed," argued Christy. "We are as
sure of her as though we already had her in our clutches. There are
plenty of officers in the navy who would like to command her when she is
altered over into a cruiser."

"You are quite right, Captain Passford; and there are some of them on
the deck of the St. Regis at this moment," said the first lieutenant,
laughing.

"Heave the log, Mr. Baskirk," said the captain.

The report from the master, who attended to this duty, was soon reported
to the executive officer, who transmitted it to the commander.

"Rising twenty knots, sir," said he.

"That will do," replied Christy. "That is enough to enable us to
overhaul the chase within half an hour."

Within fifteen minutes it could be seen that the St. Regis was rapidly
gaining on the Raven, for the latter was near enough now to enable the
pursuers to read the name on her stern, and the captain of the highflyer
could not help realizing that he had not the slightest chance to escape.
The chaser was within the eighth of a mile of her, and the result was
only a matter of minutes.

"She has stopped her screw, sir!" reported the third lieutenant in the
waist, passing the word from the second lieutenant on the forecastle.

"She has stopped her screw, Captain," repeated Mr. Baskirk.

"That means mischief," replied Christy, as he directed his gaze to the
Raven.

"She is getting out two boats on her port side!" shouted Mr. Makepeace
from the top-gallant forecastle; and the report was repeated till it
reached the commander, though he had heard it before it was officially
communicated to him. "That means more mischief."

"Ready to stop and back her!" he cried through the speaking-tube to the
chief engineer.

"All ready, sir," replied Paul.

"Some of these blockade-runners are desperate characters, and that
captain intends either to burn or sink his ship," continued Christy,
with a trifle of excitement in his manner, though he looked as dignified
as a college professor in the presence of his class.

The St. Regis was still rushing with unabated speed towards her prey,
and a minute or two more would decide whether or not she was to be a
prize or a blazing hulk on the broad ocean.

"Lay him aboard on the port side, Mr. Baskirk!"

"The two boats are there, Captain, as you can see," replied the
executive officer.

"Board on the port side, Mr. Baskirk!" repeated the commander very
decidedly, and somewhat sharply; and at the same time he rang one bell
on the gong to slow down the engine. "Board on the port side, Mr.
Baskirk!" he repeated again. "Mr. Drake, have the steam pump and long
hose ready to extinguish fire!"

Whether the captain of the Raven had ordered his men to scuttle the
steamer, or to fire her in several places, Christy could not know; and
he did not much care, for he was ready to meet either emergency. The St.
Regis was bearing down on her victim with a reduced speed. The men
forward and in the waist were all ready with the grappling irons to
fasten to her, and the boarders were all prepared to leap upon her deck,
though no fighting was expected.

The bow of the St. Regis was near the stem of the Raven, and Christy
rang one bell to stop her, and then two to back her. Then he sprang upon
the starboard rail of the ship where he could observe his men as they
boarded the other steamer.

"What are you about, sir?" yelled a man on the quarter-deck of the
Raven, who appeared to be the captain of the vessel, in a rude voice.
"Don't you see that you are crushing my two boats and the men in them?"

"I did not order the boats or the men there," replied Christy calmly,
and in a gentle tone, for the captain of the blockade-runner was not ten
feet from him.

"I did," added the captain of the prize, for such she really was by this
time.

"Then you are responsible for them," said the commander of the St.
Regis.

"Do you mean to murder them?" gasped the other captain furiously.

"If they are killed you have sent them to their death!"

But the commander had no time to argue the matter with the irate
captain. He had rung three bells, and the ship was backing at full
speed. The momentum had not been sufficiently checked to stop her, and
the two boats were crushed to splinters. The seamen who were in them saw
what was coming, and they seized the ropes which had been dropped to
them by the boarders on the rail at the command of the captain, who did
not wish them to be sacrificed to the madness of their commander, and
they climbed to the chains of the Federal ship with the aid of the
boarders.

"Lay her aboard!" shouted Christy as soon as the headway of the ship had
been checked, and the grappling irons had been made fast.

The willing and active seamen poured from the rails to the deck of the
prize, their officers leading the way. The main hatch had been removed
and a light smoke was coming up through the opening. The hose from the
steam pump of the ship had been drawn on board, and the master was in
charge of it. At the command of the officers the men leaped below at all
the openings in the deck, and it was found that she had been fired in
half a dozen places.

In most of them the combustibles had only been lighted a few moments
before, and they had not become well-kindled. Except at the main hatch,
the men extinguished the flames with their hands and feet, and a stream
from the hose put out the one amidships. The hoseman shut off the water,
and the ship's company of the St. Regis were in full possession of the
prize.

"Anything more to be done, Captain Bristler?" asked the mate, as he
approached the commander.

"Nothing more can be done, Mr. Victor," replied the captain, who
appeared to be overwhelmed with wrath at the unexpected termination of
his voyage. "It is too late to scuttle her, and that vampire of a Yankee
has smashed both of our boats into kindling wood. We did not begin the
end soon enough."

But the beginning had evidently ended sooner than had been expected, and
the Raven was the prize of the St. Regis. Christy still stood on the
rail, and saw that all his orders had been executed to the letter. Mr.
Makepeace had sent the carpenter and his gang into the hold, or as far
as they could get, to ascertain if the steamer had been scuttled. It
could not have been done without breaking out a portion of the cargo,
and this would have been a work of no little time. The carpenter
reported that everything was all right below the deck of the Raven,
and the commander on the rail was so informed.

  [Illustration: "The stream struck the commander with force."
  Page 331.]

"This is a heathenish outrage, Captain, if a young cub like you can be
the commander of a ship like that!" exclaimed Captain Bristler, foaming
with rage over the result of the affair; and he interlarded his speech
with all the oaths in the vocabulary of a pirate.

"Captain Bristler, when you address me as one gentleman should another,
I will talk with you; but not till then," replied Christy with dignity.

"A gentleman!" gasped the other captain. "You tried to murder half a
dozen of my men! You are a Yankee pirate! That's what you are!"

We cannot soil this page with even a description of the oaths and curses
with which he mixed his language. Christy was disgusted with him; and
while he still continued his impious ravings, he sent a midshipman with
an order to Mr. Makepeace who was in charge of the hose pipe on board of
the Raven. While Captain Bristler was pouring forth anathemas that made
the blood of the loyal officers run cold in their veins, the man who
held the hose pipe directed it to him, and the water was turned on.

The stream struck the commander with force enough to knock him down.
But the bath was not suspended on that account, and it was continued
till it had extinguished the fire of profanity. Christy made a sign,
and the steam-pump ceased to work. The mate rushed to the assistance of
the captain, put him on his feet, and was conducting him towards the
companion, seeking a retreat in his cabin; but he was silent, perhaps
from his inability to speak.

"Stop, Mr. Victor!" called Christy to the mate. "I cannot trust that man
to remain on board of the Raven"; and at the same time he directed Mr.
Baskirk to have him arrested and put in irons, if he was violent.

"But this gentleman is the commander of the steamer," interposed the
mate.

"I don't care what he is; if he were a gentleman, as you call him,
I would treat him like one; but he is a brute, and I shall treat him as
such," replied Christy, as two of his men, attended by two more, laid
hands on the dripping captain. "You may send his clothes on board of
this ship, Mr. Victor. Have him committed to the brig, Master-at-Arms."

There was no appeal from the decision of Commander Passford, for his
authority was supreme. The refractory commander was committed to the
brig of the St. Regis, and his own steward was sent to him with his
clothes, with order to exchange his wet garments for dry ones.

"Sail, ho!" shouted the man on the cross trees, who had remained there
during the scene which had just transpired, while the commander was
descending from the rail.

Possibly the lookout man had been more attentive to the proceedings on
the deck of the Raven than to his duty, for the sail must have been in
sight some little time before he reported it. The two steamers, which
had been vainly chasing the prize, were now within half a mile of the
St. Regis.




CHAPTER XXX

ANOTHER SAILING CONTEST INAUGURATED


Although the Raven had not yet been disposed of, the ship's company
were immediately interested in the vessel which the lookout had tardily
announced; and the vigor with which he had given the hail to the deck
indicated that he was conscious of the defect.

"Where away?" returned Mr. Baskirk; though it was a superfluous
question, for all on the deck who cast their eyes to the westward could
see the sail.

"On the starboard, sir."

Commander Passford was already examining the distant sail with his
glass, as were all the officers who were not otherwise occupied. There
were fog banks in that direction; and the craft might have suddenly
loomed up out of them, though this did not appear to have been the case.
The sail was too far off to be made out with anything like distinctness.
It was a steamer headed to the east, and the quantity of smoke that
trailed in the air above indicated that she had been liberal in the use
of coal in her furnaces.

As the sail was diminishing her distance from the St. Regis, Christy
turned his attention again to the prize alongside his ship. The two
chasers that had been pursuing the Raven, neither of which appeared to
be capable of making more than fourteen knots an hour, were now almost
within hailing distance.

The Raven was a steamer of nearly the size of the St. Regis. She was not
armed, and had a ship's company of about thirty men, including officers.
Her cargo was miscellaneous in its character, consisting of such
merchandise as was most needed in the Confederacy, especially in the
army. A watch had been set below on board of her to extinguish fires if
any more appeared; but this peril had been effectually removed. The
attempt to destroy the steamer and her cargo looked like malice and
revenge, and some of the officers of the ship thought it ought to be
regarded and treated as an act of war.

To burn, scuttle, blow up, run ashore, or otherwise destroy a
blockade-runner after her situation has become absolutely hopeless can
result only to the benefit of the enemy, since it deprived the Federals
of the property that would otherwise be confiscated under international
law. But blockade-runners are regarded as neutrals unless proved to be
Americans, in which case they are subject to the penalties of treason,
and the forfeiture of the ship and cargo is the only punishment.

Christy had never been able to regard this class of persons with much
respect, for they appeared to be in league with the enemy. Captain
Bristler had not only attempted to break through the blockade, which he
and many of his countrymen regarded as a legitimate business; but he had
attempted to burn his vessel. He had got out his boats; and when she was
wrapped in flames, he evidently expected the Federal victor to pick up
himself and his ship's company, and treat the whole of them as though
they had not been, at least constructively if not really, in the service
of the enemy.

"The cold water applied to the commander of the Raven has had a good
effect upon him," said the first lieutenant, as he touched his cap on
the quarter-deck of the St. Regis. "He sends word that he regrets his
conduct, and asks to be released from confinement."

"He has behaved himself more like a swine than a gentleman; but I have
no ill-will towards him, for I regarded him as beneath my contempt,"
replied Captain Passford. "I can understand his condition, for of course
he is suffering under a tremendous disappointment; but that does not
atone for his brutality."

"Certainly not, sir. He was running away from the two blockaders that
were pursuing him, and had beaten them both. He was absolutely sure of
his escape till he encountered the fleet in shore when the St. Regis
came upon the scene," added Mr. Baskirk.

"Her captain had no particular respect for our steamer when he saw her,
and kept on his course as if in contempt of her, till we dropped a shot
near him. If he had headed to the south when he first made out the St.
Regis, he would have improved his chances, but he would only have given
us a longer chase. Let Captain Bristler out of the brig, Mr. Baskirk; we
will see if he can behave himself any better; but I will not allow any
man to swear at me if I can help myself."

A little later Captain Bristler came on deck in charge of the ship's
corporal. He was dressed in his best clothes, and his personal
appearance had been greatly improved.

"Captain Passford," said he, raising his cap to the commander, "under
the influence of my awful disappointment at the failure of the Raven to
outsail you, I was rude and ungentlemanly, and some of my forecastle
habits came back to me. I beg your pardon; and I shall show you that I
know how to be a gentleman, if I did forget myself for a time."

"That is sufficient, and I accept your apology, Captain Bristler,"
replied Christy with abundant dignity.

"I did not believe there was a ship in the Federal navy that could
outsail the Raven, for she was built more for speed than for cargo,"
continued the captain of the prize.

"The St. Regis is not the only one that can outsail the Raven. I have
served in a steamer that could beat her four knots an hour in an
emergency," added Christy.

"What steamer is that, Captain?" asked Captain Bristler.

"That is not important, but it was the one that outsailed and captured
the St. Regis when she had another name."

"Then your ship was a blockade-runner?"

"She was, and also a Confederate man-of-war; she was the Trafalgar."

"Ah! Then I know her very well; and the company owning the Raven, of
which I am a member, offered nearly double what it cost to build the
Raven for her," replied Captain Bristler. "I can understand now how I
happened to be so thoroughly beaten in the last chase. She was built for
a yacht, and no money was spared upon her."

By this time the two steamers that had first chased the Raven had
stopped their screws, and a boat was on its way from each of them. The
two cutters came up to the gangway, and the officer in each ascended to
the deck. Christy permitted the captain of the Raven to take care of
himself, while he waited for the visitors to present themselves.

"I am very glad to see you, Mr. Amblen!" exclaimed Christy, as he
extended his hand; for he recognized in the first officer the gentleman
who had been his third lieutenant in the Bronx.

"I am delighted to see you again, Captain Passford," replied Lieutenant
Amblen, for such was his present rank. "I am now the executive officer
of the Muskegon. I have the pleasure of presenting to you Mr. Cartright,
first lieutenant of the St. Croix."

"I am happy to meet you, Mr. Cartright."

"I have often heard of you, Captain Passford, and I am glad to see you
in command of so fine and fast a steamer as the St. Regis, though I
never heard of her before," added the executive officer of the St.
Croix. "Of course you are aware that there is a steamer in sight to the
westward of us."

"I am aware of it; and for that reason we should hasten our present
business," replied Christy, as he glanced at the steamer in the distance
and the trails of smoke astern of her. "I do not know who is the ranking
officer here; and I have not yet reported to the admiral, for I took
part in the chase from the moment of my arrival."

"You are a lieutenant"--Mr. Amblen began.

"A lieutenant-commander, if you please," interposed Christy with a
smile.

"Then you are the ranking officer, Captain Passford, for both of the
other commanders are lieutenants," added the executive officer of the
Muskegon. "We are ready to transmit your orders to our superiors."

"My orders will depend somewhat upon the steamer astern of us; and if
you will excuse me a few moments, I shall soon be ready to issue them,"
replied Christy, as he took his spy-glass from the brackets, and
directed it to the approaching steamer from the west. "What do you
make of her, Mr. Baskirk?"

The executive officer had been observing the steamer astern with his
glass; and she was not more than four miles distant by this time.

"She is a large vessel, I judge, not less than a thousand tons. She has
all sail set and drawing, and she seems to be making very rapid progress
through the water," replied the first lieutenant. "But there are not
less than three steamers pursuing her, though they are a long way astern
of her."

"I make out the chasers, and I should judge that she is getting away
from them," added Christy.

"The leading steamer is turning her head to the south!" exclaimed Mr.
Baskirk, with no little excitement in his manner.

"I only wonder she has not done so before," added the commander,
rejoining the officers of the other steamers. "I believe Captain Wright
of the Muskegon outranks Captain Boyden of the St. Croix," he continued.

"He does, Captain Passford," replied Mr. Amblen.

"If you will excuse me a moment, I will write an order for him;" and
Christy retired to his cabin for this purpose.

His communication directed Captain Wright to take possession of the
Raven, and treat her precisely as though she were the prize of the
Muskegon and her consort; and constructively she was concerned in
the capture of the vessel, especially in the distribution of the
prize-money. He added to the order the fact that what appeared to be a
blockade-runner astern of his ship was outsailing her pursuers, and the
St. Regis being a very fast steamer, his duty did not permit him to make
any further delay in taking part in the chase.

With this order in the hands of Mr. Amblen, Christy took leave of the
two officers and they departed in their boats. But he was obliged to
await the arrival of one or both of the blockaders before starting the
screw, for he was not willing to leave any number of his crew in charge
of the prize. While he was waiting, he wrote a letter to the acting
admiral of the station, announcing his arrival, and copying into it the
material portion of his orders from the department.

The Muskegon was the first to come alongside of the Raven, which she did
on the starboard side. Captain Wright, crossing the deck of the Raven,
presented himself to Captain Passford on the quarter-deck of the St.
Regis; he was received with Christy's accustomed politeness, and the
prize was handed over to him verbally, as it had been done before in
writing.

Captain Wright began to compliment Captain Passford, with whose
brilliant reputation he was already very familiar; but Christy
interposed, declaring that he was in a great hurry, and could hear no
more, if his orders were clearly understood. Mr. Baskirk had directed
the recall of all the ship's company, with the exception of a master's
mate, who was to remain on board to give any further information needed
to the officers of the Muskegon, and to be a witness in New York at the
prize court.

Captain Bristler and his effects were sent back to the Raven, the
grappling irons and the fasts were cast off, and the St. Regis backed
out from her position on the port side of the prize. During all this
time Christy was very busy with his glass. As Mr. Baskirk had
discovered, the leading steamer had three blockaders in chase of her.
She was now headed to the south, having done so as soon as she saw the
four vessels lying in her course.

"Make the course south-west by south, Mr. Baskirk," said the young
commander, after he had brought his trigonometry into use again.

Then it became a very exciting question to ascertain which was the
faster steamer of the two.




CHAPTER XXXI

A VICTORIOUS UNION


The fog was coming and going in the distance, and at times the land
could be just discerned. In spite of the number and vigilance of the
blockading fleet, several hundred blockade-runners had succeeded in
making their way into Cape Fear River, though several hundred also had
been captured, not to mention a very considerable number that had been
run ashore or burned when escape became hopeless.

It was the policy of the Confederacy to send out vessels to prey upon
the commerce of the United States. Some of them began their depredations
without making a port in the South, and a few of the swift steamers that
succeeded in getting into Mobile, Wilmington, and other safe places,
were fitted out for the work of destruction. The fog that prevailed
inshore was favorable to blockade-runners; and if there was a vessel of
this character in Cape Fear River, the early morning had been such as to
tempt her to try to make her way through the blockaders to sea.

"She is not one of the ordinary steamers that run in and out of the
river," said Mr. Baskirk, while he and the commander were still watching
the progress of the chase, and Paul Vapoor was warming up the engine as
he had done before.

"She is larger than the St. Regis, but hardly equal in size to the
Bellevite," added Christy. "She cannot draw more than twelve or fourteen
feet of water, or she could not have come out through those shallow
channels at the mouth of Cape Fear River. She seems to have the speed
to run away from her pursuers; but probably not one of them can make
fifteen knots an hour."

The three pursuers of the blockade-runner had changed their course when
the chase did so; but it was already evident that they had no chance to
overhaul her. They were still three miles astern of her, while the St.
Regis, at sunset, was not more than three. Not a shot had been fired by
any one of the steamers, and it would have been a waste of ammunition to
do so.

"We are gaining on her," said Christy, half an hour later. "That steamer
is making sixteen knots at least."

"If she has found out that we can outsail her, very likely she will
count upon the darkness to enable her to give us the slip," suggested
Mr. Baskirk.

"Mr. Vapoor has come to his bearings, and in another half hour we shall
be within one mile of her. But I am afraid we shall not be able to
settle this affair finally to-night," replied Christy.

The darkness gathered around the two ships, and none of the steamers in
the distance could any longer be seen. The officers could just make out
the steamer ahead, which still kept on her course. The midship gun was
now brought into use, and a round shot was sent on its mission to her;
but with little chance of hitting her in the increasing gloom, for the
sky was obscured with clouds, and all the signs indicated fog during the
night, which would be exceedingly favorable to the chase. A flash was
seen in the distance, and then came the roar of a heavy gun.

"She is not merely a blockade-runner; for it appears now that she is an
armed vessel, and has some heavy metal on board," said Christy.

"But no shot has come within hearing," added Mr. Baskirk. "Perhaps she
only wished to inform us that she could bite as well as bark."

The St. Regis kept on her course for another hour. Christy was very
anxious, for the chase was plainly a Confederate man-of-war, or a
privateer; and if she escaped she might begin her work of destruction
the very next day. At two bells in the first watch she could not be
seen; but the commander kept on his course another half-hour, and then
he ran into a fog.

The log indicated that the ship was making her best speed; and if the
chase continued on her former course, she must have been within sight or
hearing by this time. Christy peered through the gloom of the night and
the fog, and listened for any sound. He kept up a tremendous thinking
all the time, and acted as though he was in doubt.

"Make the course east, Mr. Baskirk," said he, calling the executive
officer.

"East, Captain Passford?" interrogated the lieutenant; and if he tried
to conceal the astonishment he felt, his tones failed him.

"East, Mr. Baskirk," repeated the commander.

The course was given to the quartermaster at the wheel; and the St.
Regis came about gradually, and stood off in the direction indicated.
Christy had a theory of his own, in regard to the probable movements of
the chase, and he desired to be solely responsible for the result:
therefore he kept his plan to himself.

"Call all hands, Mr. Baskirk, but without any noise at all," continued
the commander, while the ship was still driving ahead at the rate of
twenty knots an hour.

The ship's company silently took their stations, and no one on the deck
spoke a loud word, though no order to this effect had been given. All
the white cotton cloth that could be found on board was brought to the
waist, where it was torn into strips about three inches wide, and two
feet in length. These two pieces were distributed among the ship's
company, with the order to tie them around the left arm, above the
elbow.

The fog was deep and dense; and the lookouts, who were stationed on the
top-gallant forecastle and aloft, could not see a ship's length ahead.
Christy had gone forward, and made his way out on the bowsprit, in order
to get as far as possible from the noise of the engine. He listened
there for a full half-hour, and while the ship had made ten miles.

"Starboard a little, Mr. Baskirk," he called to the executive officer,
who had followed him forward.

"Starboard, sir," repeated the officer, as he sent the order aft.

"Port! Port!" exclaimed the commander with more energy.

The orders were passed rapidly through the line of officers till they
reached the quartermaster conning the wheel. The captain continued to
listen for another quarter of an hour.

"Steady!" he shouted aloud, and left his position on the bowsprit to
take another on the top-gallant forecastle. "We are close aboard of her,
Mr. Baskirk! Have your grappling irons ready! Lay her aboard as we come
alongside!"

By this time all hands forward could see the dark hull of the enemy. The
St. Regis was rapidly running alongside of her, for the chase did not
seem to be going at her former speed; and no doubt her commander was
busy working out some manoeuvre he had devised to escape from his
pursuers. The boarders threw their grappling-irons, and fastened to the
side of the enemy.

The drum was heard on board of her, beating to quarters; but it was too
late, for the boarders were springing over her rail. Christy heard one
bell on the gong of the other ship, and instantly made the same signal
on his own. It was evidently a surprise to the enemy, but the ship's
company were promptly rallied. The enemy was overwhelmed in a few
minutes, though not till several had fallen on both sides. The captain
seemed to have been too busy with his manoeuvre to escape to attend to
present conditions.

While the commander of the St. Regis remained on the deck, or even on
the top-gallant forecastle, the clang of his own engine prevented him
from hearing any other sounds; and the enemy appeared not to have seen
the ship till she emerged from the fog. The crew of the prize, as she
was by this time, were all driven below, and the victory was complete.

"Do you surrender?" demanded Mr. Baskirk of the officer who appeared to
be the captain.

"There appears to be no alternative," replied the commander very
gloomily: and he did not attempt to explain how his misfortune had come
upon him. He had counted upon the fog to insure his salvation; but it
appeared to have been the primary cause of his capture, though he
certainly had not been as vigilant as a commander should be. Christy
came on board, and Mr. Baskirk introduced him.

"I am glad to see you, Captain Passford," said the commander as a matter
of form. "I was absolutely sure that you would chase me to the westward,
sir; and I had not the slightest expectation of encountering you on this
course."

"I took my chances of finding you in this direction rather than in the
opposite one," replied Christy. "It appears that I correctly interpreted
your strategy, though I dared not even mention my plan to my executive
officer."

"I have fallen into my own trap, and being captured as I was, is
disgraceful to me," added Captain Winnlock, as his name proved to be;
and the steamer was the Watauga.

Christy's opinion of the capture did not differ from that of the
commander of the prize, but he made no remark upon it. The Watauga was
loaded with cotton, which was to be sent to England from Nassau, while
the steamer was to go on a cruise in search of defenceless merchantmen
of the United States.

"I have a passenger on board, Captain Passford, who bears the same name
that you do, and possibly he may be one of your relatives, though he is
by no means a Federalist," said Captain Winnlock.

"Indeed! May I ask his name?" replied Christy very much surprised.

"Colonel Homer Passford, sir."

"My uncle again!"

Mr. French, the master, had already been appointed prize-master; and
while Mr. Baskirk was making the arrangements for her departure for New
York, Christy accompanied the captain to the cabin. Colonel Passford had
learned the fate of the Watauga; and he sat at a table, his face covered
with both hands.

"I have brought down to see you, Colonel Passford, your nephew," said
the commander; and his uncle sprang to his feet, and gazed at his
brother's son as though he had been a spectre.

"Christy!" he exclaimed; but he could say no more, and groaned in his
anguish.

"He is a lieutenant-commander now, and captain of the steamer St. Regis,
formerly the Tallahatchie. The Watauga is now unfortunately the prize of
his ship," added Captain Winnlock, as he retired from the cabin.

"Captured again by my nephew," groaned the unhappy colonel. "I believe
you are the emissary of the Evil One, sent to torment me."

"I am sent by the opposite Power, Uncle Homer," replied Christy very
gently. "But I am more astonished to see you here than you ought to be
to see me, for I go wherever the fortunes of war carry me."

"I was still trying to serve my country in her misfortunes. I raised
another cargo of cotton among my friends, and it is now on board of this
vessel. It has fallen into your hands, where most of my cotton has
gone."

The victorious commander inquired for his aunt and cousins in the South,
and informed him that his mother and sister were very well. He added
that he should be obliged to send him to New York in the prize, and
insured him a brotherly welcome at Bonnydale. He parted with his uncle
pitying him very much; but he had chosen for himself which side he would
take in the great conflict.

The Watauga had a crew of sixty men, who were to be re-enforced at
Nassau, and a large prize-crew had to be sent with her; but French
returned with his force in three weeks, and the St. Regis was again
fully manned. Christy received a letter from the flag-officer, who
commended him very highly for the service he had rendered; and the St.
Regis was continued on her present station through the remainder of the
summer, and during the winter on the outer limit of the blockaders.

She made several captures, though all of them without any fighting, for
no more Confederate men-of-war, actually or intended as such, came out
of Wilmington, or attempted to enter the Cape Fear; but he sent a large
number of blockade-runners, loaded with cotton coming out, or with
supplies for the Confederate armies going in, to New York.

One day in August a large steamer was reported to the commander of the
St. Regis as coming from the South. Christy was all ready for a battle
if she proved to be a Confederate cruiser; but to his great joy she
turned out to be the Bellevite. The ocean was as smooth as glass, and
she came alongside the St. Regis. The young commander hastened on board
of her, followed by his chief engineer.

Captain Breaker actually hugged him amid the repeated cheers and
applause of the ship's company, and Paul Vapoor was received with hardly
less enthusiasm. Christy had to shake hands for the next half-hour.

"But how do you and the Bellevite happen to be in this latitude, Captain
Breaker?" asked the young commander when he had an opportunity to speak.

"Haven't you heard the news, Captain Passford?" demanded the captain of
the Bellevite.

"What news? We don't get the news so far off shore," replied Christy.

"There was no farther use for my ship in the Gulf, and I am sent here
to report to the flag-officer. Admiral Farragut turned his attention to
Mobile Bay with his fleet; and I gave him the information you procured
for me. The Bellevite took part in the battle, and it was the hottest
action in which I was ever engaged. My ship was badly cut up in her
upper works, but she came out all right."

"This is glorious news, Captain Breaker!" exclaimed Christy, waving his
hat, whereupon the tars in the waist broke out in a volley of cheers.

"The carpenters have been busy since the action, and the Bellevite is as
good as new," added her commander, as he proceeded to tell the story of
the great battle, to which Christy and Paul listened with breathless
interest. "Fort Morgan and Fort Gaines surrendered, and the bay is open
to our ships."

The narrative has gone into history, and it is not necessary to repeat
it. The Bellevite reported to the flag officer; and as her great speed
fitted her for duty like that in which the St. Regis was engaged, she
was employed as a cruiser till the end of the war, though she and
Christy's ship took part in the bombardment and capture of Fort Fisher
in January. The end was rapidly approaching. The Bellevite continued to
cruise until the end of the war, announced to the world by the surrender
of General Lee.

Among the steamers ordered up the James River were the Bellevite and
the St. Regis, and the sailors of both were among those who put out the
fire which threatened to consume the city of Richmond. Christy saw the
President there, and was presented to him, which he will remember as
long as he lives. In due time the St. Regis was ordered to the navy yard
at New York. As early as possible he hastened to Bonnydale, where all
the family and Bertha Pembroke were waiting for him. It was a sort of
united embrace which welcomed him; and all the day and half the night
were given to the narrative of the young commander's adventures. They
were all supremely happy.

Peace had come, and the whole North was ringing with the rejoicings of
the people. Thousands upon thousands had laid down their lives in the
army and the navy in their devotion to their country, and were laid in
graves far from home and kindred, or committed to the silent depths of
the ocean.

They had won Peace and A Victorious Union.

It was far otherwise in the South, though Peace spread her mantle over
the whole united nation. Her people had fought valiantly, and made
sacrifices which no one beyond their borders can understand or
appreciate. If the devotion and self-sacrifice of the South, the bravery
and determination with which her sons fought, and the heroism with which
they suffered and died, were the only considerations, they deserved
success. But thirty years of peace have made the South more prosperous
than ever before, and her people enjoy the benefits of the Victorious
Union.

  [Illustration: "Amid the cheers and applause of the ship's company."
  Page 356.]

Homer Passford, like thousands of others in the South, was a ruined man
at the close of the war. He had lost his plantation, and he and his
family had nowhere to lay their heads. But he was a true Southerner,
and he did not regret or repent of what he had done for what he called
his country. His brother chartered a steamer to bring the family to
Bonnydale, but only for a friendly visit. The reunion was a happy one;
and neither brother was disposed to talk politics, and those of the
North did not indulge in a single "I told you so!" in the presence of
their defeated relatives. They were the same as they had been before the
war; and it is needless to say that Horatio generously helped out Homer
financially; and now he is as wealthy and prosperous as ever before.

When it came to disposing of the vessels that were no longer needed for
the navy, Christy bought the St. Regis, for in a moderate way compared
with his father he was a rich man. On the day he was twenty-one years
old, Bertha Pembroke became his wife; and Paul Vapoor became the husband
of Florry Passford on the same occasion. Over a year had elapsed since
the war, and the St. Regis had been entirely reconstructed in her
interior, and furnished in the most elegant manner.

Her first mission was a voyage to Mobile to bring the family of Uncle
Homer to the wedding. It was the grandest occasion that had ever been
known in the region of Bonnydale. The young couple were to spend the
summer on their bridal trip on board of the elegant steam-yacht,
visiting various ports of Europe.

In the multitude who came to Bonnydale to assist at the marriage of the
young hero was Monsieur Gilfleur, who was received with distinguished
consideration by all the family, including the bride elect; and it can
be safely asserted that he was one of the happiest of the guests who
rejoiced in the felicity of the ex-lieutenant-commander, for he had
resigned his commission at the close of the war. This was not the first
time they had met since their memorable campaigns in Bermuda and Nassau;
for the detective had spent a fortnight at Bonnydale with his young
friend, during which they had told the stories of their experience in
secret service. They are fast friends for life.

Captain Passford, senior, presented to his son an elegant house, built
and magnificently furnished while Christy and his wife were voyaging in
European waters. It is on the Bonnydale estate: and the grandfather of
two boys and a girl does not have to go far to visit the family, for he
is nearly eighty years old. Christy is somewhat grizzled with iron gray
hair and whiskers; but he is still the same as when he was a young
officer, and still as devoted as ever to the country he helped to make
A Victorious Union.




OLIVER OPTIC'S BOOKS.

Sold in Sets or Separate Volumes. Each Set in a Neat Box
with Illuminated Labels.


ARMY AND NAVY STORIES.

A Library for Young and Old, in six volumes. 16mo. Illustrated.
    Per volume    $1.50

  The Soldier Boy.
  The Sailor Boy.
  The Young Lieutenant.
  The Yankee Middy.
  Fighting Joe.
  Brave Old Salt.


FAMOUS "BOAT-CLUB" SERIES.

A Library for Young People. Handsomely illustrated. Six volumes,
    in neat box. Per volume    1.25

  The Boat Club; or, The Bunkers of Rippleton.
  All Aboard; or, Life on the Lake.
  Now or Never; or, The Adventures of Bobby Bright.
  Try Again; or, the Trials and Triumphs of Harry West.
  Poor and Proud; or, The Fortunes of Katy Redburn.
  Little by Little; or, The Cruise of the Flyaway.


THE LAKE-SHORE SERIES.

Six volumes. Illustrated. In neat box. Per volume    1.25

  Through by Daylight; or, The Young Engineer of the Lake Shore
       Railroad.
  Lightning Express; or, The Rival Academies.
  On Time; or, The Young Captain of the Ucayga Steamer.
  Switch Off; or, The War of the-Students.
  Break Up; or, The Young Peacemakers.
  Bear and Forbear; or, The Young Skipper of Lake Ucayga.


THE SOLDIER-BOY SERIES.

Three volumes, in neat box. Illustrated. Per volume    1.50

  The Soldier Boy; or, Tom Somers in the Army.
  The Young Lieutenant; or, The Adventures of an Army Officer.
  Fighting Joe; or, The Fortunes of a Staff Officer.


_LEE AND SHEPARD, PUBLISHERS, BOSTON._


_OLIVER OPTIC'S BOOKS_


THE SAILOR-BOY SERIES.

Three volumes, in neat box. Illustrated. Per volume    $1.50

  The Sailor Boy; or, Jack Somers in the Navy.
  The Yankee Middy; or, Adventures of a Naval Officer.
  Brave Old Salt; or, Life on the Quarter-Deck.


THE STARRY-FLAG SERIES.

Six volumes. Illustrated. Per volume    1.25

  The Starry Flag; or, The Young Fisherman of Cape Ann.
  Breaking Away; or, The Fortunes of a Student.
  Seek and Find; or, The Adventures of a Smart Boy.
  Freaks of Fortune; or, Half Round the World.
  Make or Break; or, The Rich Man's Daughter.
  Down the River; or, Buck Bradford and the Tyrants.


THE WAY OF THE WORLD.

By William T. Adams (Oliver Optic) 12mo    1.50


WOODVILLE STORIES.

Uniform with "Library for Young People." Six volumes. Illustrated.
    16mo. Per volume    1.25

  Rich and Humble; or, The Mission of Bertha Grant.
  In School and Out; or, The Conquest of Richard Grant.
  Watch and Wait; or, The Young Fugitives.
  Work and Win; or, Noddy Newman on a Cruise.
  Hope and Have; or, Fanny Grant among the Indians.
  Haste and Waste; or, The Young Pilot of Lake Champlain.


YACHT-CLUB SERIES.

Uniform with the ever popular "Boat-Club" Series. Completed in
    six volumes. Illustrated. 16mo. Per volume    1.50

  Little Bobtail; or, The Wreck of the Penobscot.
  The Yacht Club; or, The Young Boat-Builders.
  Money-Maker; or, The Victory of the Basilisk.
  The Coming Wave; or, The Treasure of High Rock.
  The Dorcas Club; or, Our Girls Afloat.
  Ocean Born; or, The Cruise of the Clubs.


_LEE AND SHEPARD, PUBLISHERS, BOSTON._


_OLIVER OPTIC'S BOOKS._


THE HOUSEHOLD LIBRARY.

Three volumes. Illustrated. Per volume    $1.50

  Living Too Fast.
  In Doors and Out.
  The Way of the World.


THE ONWARD AND UPWARD SERIES.

Complete in six volumes. Illustrated. In neat box. Per volume    1.25

  Field and Forest; or, The Fortunes of a Farmer.
  Plane and Plank; or, The Mishaps of a Mechanic.
  Desk and Debit; or, The Catastrophes of a Clerk.
  Cringle and Cross-Tree; or, The Sea Swashes of a Sailor.
  Bivouac and Battle; or, The Struggles of a Soldier.
  Sea and Shore; or, The Tramps of a Traveller.


YOUNG AMERICA ABROAD SERIES.

A library of Travel and Adventure in Foreign Lands.
    Illustrated by Nast, Stevens, Perkins, and others.
    Per volume. 16mo    1.50

FIRST SERIES.

  Outward Bound; or, Young America Afloat.
  Shamrock and Thistle; or, Young America in Ireland and Scotland.
  Red Cross; or, Young America in England and Wales.
  Dikes and Ditches; or, Young America in Holland and Belgium.
  Palace and Cottage; or, Young America in France and Switzerland.
  Down the Rhine; or, Young America in Germany.

SECOND SERIES.

  Up the Baltic; or, Young America in Norway, Sweden, and Denmark.
  Northern Lands; or, Young America in Russia and Prussia.
  Cross and Crescent, or, Young America in Turkey and Greece.
  Sunny Shores; or, Young America in Italy and Austria.
  Vine and Olive: or, Young America in Spain and Portugal.
  Isles of the Sea; or, Young America Homeward Bound.


_LEE AND SHEPARD, PUBLISHERS, BOSTON._


_OLIVER OPTIC'S BOOKS._


RIVERDALE STORIES.

Twelve volumes. A new edition. Profusely illustrated from new designs
    by Billings. Illuminated covers. Per set    $2.00

Same. Cloth (in neat box). Per set    3.60

  Little Merchant.
  Young Voyagers.
  Robinsoe Crusoe, jun.
  Dolly and I.
  Uncle Ben.
  Birthday Party.
  Proud and Lazy.
  Careless Kate.
  Christmas Gift.
  The Picnic Party.
  The Gold Thimble.
  The Do-Somethings.

RIVERDALE STORY BOOKS.

Six volumes, in neat box. Cloth. Per volume    .30

  Little Merchant.
  Young Voyagers.
  Dolly and I.
  Proud and Lazy.
  Careless Kate.
  Robinson Crusoe, jun.

FLORA LEE STORY BOOKS.

Six volumes, in neat box. Cloth. Per volume    .30

  Christmas Gift.
  Uncle Ben.
  Birthday Party.
  The Picnic Party.
  The Gold Thimble.
  The Do-Somethings.


THE GREAT WESTERN SERIES.

Six volumes. Illustrated. Per volume    1.50

  Going West; or, The Perils of a Poor Boy.
  Out West; or, Roughing it on the Great Lakes.
  Lake Breezes; or, The Cruise of the Sylvania.
  Going South; or, Yachting on the Atlantic Coast.
  Down South; or, Yacht Adventures in Florida.
  Up the River; or, Yachting on the Mississippi.


THE BOAT-BUILDER SERIES.

Six volumes. Illustrated. Per volume    1.25

  All Adrift; or, the Goldwing Club.
  Snug Harbor; or, the Young Mechanics.
  Square and Compasses; or, Building the House.
  Stem to Stern; or, Building the Boat.
  All Taut; or, Rigging the Boat.
  Ready About; or, Sailing the Boat.


LEE AND SHEPARD, PUBLISHERS, BOSTON.


       *       *       *       *       *
           *       *       *       *
       *       *       *       *       *

Errata Noted by Transcriber:

Invisible punctuation--chiefly quotation marks--has been silently
supplied.

which had been captured by the Chateaugay
  _text reads "Chataugay"_
CHAPTER XVI
  _text reads "CHPATER"_
after he had examined it
  _text reads "exaimed"_
"That will never do!" exclaimed the commander bruskly.
  _spelling as in original_
"You have been very kind to Captain Rombold, Gill informs me, and"--
  _original has no punctuation with close quote_
Your second lieutenant is Joel Makepeace
  _text reads "Makepiece"_
beginning to shake a little
  _text reads "begining"_
he sent a midshipman
  _text reads "he send"_
look at the darkness
  _text reads "look at the the darkness"_






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of A Victorious Union, by Oliver Optic

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK A VICTORIOUS UNION ***

***** This file should be named 18678-8.txt or 18678-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/1/8/6/7/18678/

Produced by Louise Hope, David Garcia, Juliet Sutherland
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
http://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
generously made available by The Kentuckiana Digital
Library)


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.org/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.org),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

*** END: FULL LICENSE ***
